=head1 IupOpen

Initializes the IUP toolkit. Must be called before any other IUP
function.

=head2 Parameters/Return

 int IupOpen(int *argc, char ***argv); [in C]
 [There is no equivalent in Lua]

B<argc> and B<argv>: are the same as the application "main" function
function. Some parameters processed by the driver can be removed so the
address is necessary. They can be NULL. (Since 2.7)

Returns: IUP_OPENED (already opened), IUP_ERROR or IUP_NOERROR. Only in
UNIX can fail to open, because X-Windows may be not initialized.

=head2 Notes

In Windows, B<CoInitializeEx(COINIT_APARTMENTTHREADED)> and
B<InitCommonControlsEx(ICC_WIN95_CLASSES)> functions are called.

In Motif, B<XtOpenApplication> function is called.

For a more detailed explanation on the system control, please refer to
L<Guide E<47> System Control|../guide.html#sistema>.

=head2 Environment Variables

The toolkit's initialization depends also on platform-dependent
environment variables, see each driver documentation.

B<QUIET>

When this variable is set to NO, IUP will generate a message in console
indicating the driverE<rsquo>s version when initializing. Default: YES.

B<VERSION>

When this variable is set to YES, IUP generates a message dialog
indicating the driver's version when initializing. Default: NO.

=head2 Lua Binding

This function should be called by the host program and before the
IupLua initialization function B<iuplua_open>. If not the IupLua
initialization function will call it.

=head2 See Also

L<iuplua_open|iuplua_open.html>, L<IupClose|iupclose.html>, L<Guide
E<47> System Control|../guide.html#sistema>

=cut