=head1 IupRefresh

Updates the size and layout of controls after changing size attributes.
Can be used for any element inside a dialog, the layout of the dialog
will be updated. It can change the layout of all the controls inside
the dialog because of the dynamic layout positioning.

=head2 Parameters/Return

 void IupRefresh(Ihandle *ih); [in C]
 iup.Refresh(ih: ihandle) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the interface element.

=head2 Notes

Can be used for any control, but it will always affect the whole
dialog. Can be called even if the dialog is not mapped.

The elements are immediately repositioned, if the dialog is visible
then the change will be immediately reflected on the display.

This function will NOT change the size of the dialog, except when the
SIZE or RASTERSIZE attributes of the dialog where changed before the
call.

If you also want to change the size of the dialog use:

 IupSetAttribute(dialog, "SIZE", ...);
 IupRefresh(dialog);

So the dialog will be resized for the new B<User> size, if the new size
is NULL the dialog will be resized to the B<Natural> size that include
all the elements.

Changing the size of elements without changing the dialog size may
position some controls outside the dialog area at the left or bottom
borders (the elements will be cropped at the dialog borders by the
native system).

B<IupMap> also updates the dialog layout even if the control is already
mapped, so using it or using B<IupShow>, B<IupShowXY> or B<IupPopup>
(they all call B<IupMap>) will also update the dialog layout.

=head2 See Also

L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>, L<IupMap|iupmap.html>

=cut