=head1 IupSetAttribute

Sets an interface element attribute. See also the L<Attributes
Guide|../attrib_guide.html> section.

=head2 Parameters/Return

 void IupSetAttribute(Ihandle *ih, const char *name, const char *value); [in C]
 void IupSetStrAttribute(Ihandle *ih, const char *name, const char *value); [in C]iup.SetAttribute(ih: ihandle, name: string, value: string) [in Lua] 
 
 void IupSetAttributeId(Ihandle *ih, const char *name, int id, const char *value); [in C]
 void IupSetStrAttributeId(Ihandle *ih, const char *name, int id, const char *value); [in C]iup.SetAttributeId(ih: ihandle, name: string, id: number, value: string) [in Lua] 
 
 void IupSetAttributeId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, const char* value); [in C]
 void IupSetStrAttributeId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, const char* value); [in C]
 iup.SetAttributeId2(ih: ihandle, name: string, lin, col: number, value: string) [in Lua]

B<ih>: Identifier of the interface element. If NULL will set in the
global environment.

B<name>: name of the attribute.

B<id, lin, col>: used when the attribute has additional ids.

B<value>: value of the attribute. If NULL (nil in Lua), the default
value will be used.

=head2 Utility Functions

These functions can also be used to set attributes from the element:

 void IupSetStrf  (Ihandle* ih, const char* name, const char* format, ...);
 void IupSetInt   (Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int value);
 void IupSetIntInt(Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int value1, char sep, int value2);
 void IupSetFloat (Ihandle* ih, const char* name, float value);
 void IupSetRGB   (Ihandle *ih, const char* name, unsigned char r, unsigned char g, unsigned char b);
 
 void IupSetStrfId (Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int id, const char* format, ...);
 void IupSetIntId  (Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int id, int value);
 void IupSetFloatId(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int id, float value);
 void IupSetRGBId  (Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int id, unsigned char r, unsigned char g, unsigned char b);
 
 void IupSetStrfId2 (Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, const char* format, ...);
 void IupSetIntId2  (Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, int value);
 void IupSetFloatId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, float value);
 void IupSetRGBId2  (Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, unsigned char r, unsigned char g, unsigned char b);
 
 [There is no equivalent in Lua]

B<IupSetStrf>* functions (old B<IupSetfAttribute>) uses the same format
specification as the B<sprintf> function in C. This function is very
useful when several values must be combined into one string. When
passing float values, use the format "%.9f" to maximize precision.

All the utility functions use the B<IupSetStrAttribute>* functions
internally.

=head2 Notes

See the L<Attributes Guide|../attrib_guide.html> for more details.

B<IupSetAttribute> can store only constant strings (like "Title", "30",
etc) or application pointers. The given value is not duplicated as a
string, only a reference is stored. Therefore, you can store
application custom attributes, such as a context structure to be used
in a callback.

B<IupSetStrAttribute> (old B<IupStoreAttribute>) can only store
strings. The given string value will be duplicated internally.

=head2 Examples

A very common mistake when using B<IupSetAttribute> is to use local
string arrays to set attributes. For ex:

  char value[30];sprintf(value, "CODE - %d", i);IupSetAttribute(dlg, "BADEXAMPLE", value)  // WRONG  (value pointer will be internally stored,                                            //         but its memory will be released at the end of this scope)
                                            // a common bad practice is to declare value as static                                           // Use IupSetStrAttribute in this case
  char *value = malloc(30);sprintf(value, "%d", i);IupSetAttribute(dlg, "EXAMPLE", value)     // correct  (but to avoid memory leaks you should free the pointer                                                        after the dialog has been destroyed)
 IupSetAttribute(dlg, "VISIBLE", "YES")     // correct (constant values still exists after this scope)
 IupSetAttribute(text, "VALUE", "Hello!");
 IupSetAttribute(indicator, "VALUE", "ON");
 char attrib[30];sprintf(attrib, "MY ITEM (%d)", i);IupSetAttribute(dlg, attrib, "Test")       // correct (attribute names are always internally duplicated)
  struct{  int x;  int y;} myData;IupSetAttribute(text, "myData", (char*)&myData);  // WRONG, will work only if myData is a global variable.
 struct myData* mydata = malloc(sizeof(struct myData));IupSetAttribute(dlg, "MYDATA", (char*)mydata);    // correct (unknown attributes will be stored as pointers)

Defines a radioE<rsquo>s initial value:

 Ihandle *portrait = IupToggle("Portrait" , NULL);Ihandle *landscape = IupToggle("landscape" , NULL);Ihandle *box = IupVbox(portrait, IupFill(),landscape, NULL);Ihandle *mode = IupRadio(box);IupSetHandle("landscape", landscape); /* associates a name to initialize the radio */IupSetAttribute(mode, "VALUE", "landscape"); /* defines the radio’s initial value */

=head2 See Also

L<IupGetAttribute|iupgetattribute.html>,
L<IupSetAttributes|iupsetattributes.html>,
L<IupGetAttributes|iupgetattributes.html>,
L<IupSetGlobal|iupsetglobal.html>, L< IupGetGlobal|iupgetglobal.html>

=cut