=head1 IupShowXY

Displays a dialog in a given position on the screen.

=head2 Parameters/Return

 int IupShowXY(Ihandle *ih, int x, int y); [in C]
 iup.ShowXY(ih: ihandle[, x, y: number]) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]
 or ih:showxy([x, y: number]) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the dialog.

B<x>: horizontal position of the dialog relative to the origin of the
screen. The following macros are valid:

=over

=item * IUP_LEFT: Positions the dialog on the left corner of the screen

=item * IUP_CENTER: Horizontally centralizes the dialog on the screen

=item * IUP_RIGHT: Positions the dialog on the right corner of the
screen

=item * IUP_MOUSEPOS: Positions the dialog on the mouse position

=item * IUP_CENTERPARENT: Horizontally centralizes the dialog relative
to its parent (Since 3.0)

=item * IUP_CURRENT: use the current position of the dialog. This is
the default value in Lua if the parameter is not defined. (Since 3.0)

=back

B<y>: vertical position of the dialog relative to the origin of the
screen. The following macros are valid:

=over

=item * IUP_TOP: Positions the dialog on the top of the screen

=item * IUP_CENTER: Vertically centralizes the dialog on the screen

=item * IUP_BOTTOM: Positions the dialog on the base of the screen

=item * IUP_MOUSEPOS: Positions the dialog on the mouse position

=item * IUP_CENTERPARENT: Vertically centralizes the dialog relative to
its parent (Since 3.0)

=item * IUP_CURRENT: use the current position of the dialog. This is
the default value in Lua if the parameter is not defined.(Since 3.0)

=back

Returns: IUP_NOERROR if sucessful. Returns IUP_INVALID if not a dialog.
If there was an error returns IUP_ERROR.

=head2 Notes

Will call B<IupMap> for the element.

See the L<PLACEMENT|../dlg/iupdialog.html#PLACEMENT> attribute for
other position and show options.

When IUP_CENTERPARENT is used but PARENTDIALOG is not defined then it
is replaced by IUP_CENTER.

When IUP_CURRENT is used at the first time the dialog is shown then it
will be replaced by IUP_CENTERPARENT.

This function can be executed more than once for the same dialog. This
will make the dialog be placed above all other dialogs in the
application, changing its Z-order, and update its position and/or size
on screen.

IMPORTANT: Calling B<IupShowXY> for a visible dialog shown with
B<IupPopup> does nothing.

=head2 See Also

L<IupShow|iupshow.html>, L<IupHide|iuphide.html>,
L<IupPopup|iuppopup.html>, L<IupMap|iupmap.html>

=cut