=head1 IupGLProgressBar (since 3.11)

Creates an embedded OpenGL progress bar control. Shows a percent value
that can be updated to simulate a progression. It inherits from
L<IupGLSubCanvas|iupglsubcanvas.html>. It exists only inside an
L<IupGLCanvasBox|iupglcanvasbox.html>.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupGLProgressBar(void); [in C]
 iup.glprogressbar{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 glprogressbar() [in LED] 

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

The B<IupGLProgressBar> element handle all attributes defined for a
L<IupGLSubCanvas|iupglsubcanvas.html> control.

=over

----

=back

L<FGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_fgcolor.html>: Controls the bar color. Can have
an alpha component. Default: "200 225 245".

B<MAX >(non inheritable): Contains the maximum value. Default is "1".

B<MIN >(non inheritable): Contains the minimum value. Default is "0".

B<ORIENTATION>: can be "VERTICAL" or "HORIZONTAL". Default:
"HORIZONTAL". Horizontal goes from left to right, and vertical from
bottom to top.

B<PADDING>: internal margin. Works just like the MARGIN attribute of
the B<IupHbox> and B<IupVbox> containers, but uses a different name to
avoid inheritance problems. Default value: "0x0".

B<SHOW_TEXT>: Indicates if the text inside the bar is to be shown or
not. Possible values: "YES" or "NO". Default: "YES".

B<TEXT >(non inheritable): Contains a text to be shown inside the bar
when SHOW_TEXT=YES. If it is NULL, the percentage calculated from VALUE
will be used.

B<TXTCOLOR>: Text color. Can have an alpha component. Default: "0 0 0".

B<VALUE >(non inheritable): Contains a number between "MIN" and "MAX",
controlling the current position.

=head2 Notes

The natural size is the height of one character in one direction and
the width of 15 characters in the other, plus PADDING and BORDERWIDTH.

=cut