=head1 IupGLLink (since 3.11)

Creates an embedded OpenGL label that displays an underlined clickable
text. It inherits from L<IupGLLabel|iupgllabel.html>. It exists only
inside an L<IupGLCanvasBox|iupglcanvasbox.html>.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupGLLink(const char *url, const char * title); [in C]
 iup.gllink{[url = url: string], [title = title: string]} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 gllink(url, title) [in LED]

B<url>: the destination address of the link. Can be any text. If
B<IupHelp> is used should be a valid URL. It can be NULL. It will set
the URL attribute.

B<title>: Text to be shown on the link. It can be NULL. It will set the
TITLE attribute.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

The B<IupGLLink> element handle all attributes defined for the
L<IupGLLabel|iupgllabel.html> control, and consequently for the
L<IupGLSubCanvas|iupglsubcanvas.html> control too.

=over

----

=back

L<FGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_fgcolor.html>: Text color. Default: the global
attribute LINKFGCOLOR.

B<URL>: the default value is "YES".

=head2 Callbacks

The B<IupGLLink> element handle all callbacks defined for the
B<IupGLSubCanvas> control.

=over

----

=back

L<ACTION|../call/iup_action.html>: Action generated when the link is
activated.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, char *url); [in C]elem:action(url: string) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<url>: the destination address of the link.

Returns: IUP_CLOSE will be processed. If returns IUP_DEFAULT or it is
not defined, the B<IupHelp> function will be called.

=head2 Notes

When the cursor is over the text, it is changed to the HAND cursor.

If the callback is not defined the B<IupHelp> function is called with
the given URL.

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupGLLabel|iupgllabel.html>, L<IupHelp|../func/iuphelp.html>.

=cut