=head1 IupGLSizebox (since 3.11)

Creates a void container that allows its child to be resized. Allows
expanding and contracting the child B<size> in one or two directions.
It inherits from L<IupGLSubCanvas|iupglsubcanvas.html>. It exists only
inside an L<IupGLCanvasBox|iupglcanvasbox.html>.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupGLSizebox(Ihandle* child); [in C]
 iup.glsizebox{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 glsizebox(child) [in LED]

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element which will receive the
box. It can be NULL (nil in Lua), not optional in LED.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

The B<IupGLScrollBox> element handle all attributes defined for a
L<IupGLSubCanvas|iupglsubcanvas.html> control.

=over

----

=back

B<FORECOLOR>: Changes the color of the bar handler. The value should be
given in "R G B" color style. Default: "192 192 192".

B<RESIZERS>: Indicates the direction of the resize. Possible values are
"VERTICAL", "HORIZONTAL", or "BOTH". Default: "BOTH". The handler is
always placed at the right/bottom of its child.

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html> (non inheritable): The default
value is "YES".

=over

----

=back

L<CLIENTSIZE|../attrib/iup_clientsize.html>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|../attrib/iup_clientoffset.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Notes

The control inside the B<IupGLSizeBox> will have its B< User> size
changed. See the L<Layout Guide|../layout_guide.html> for mode details
on sizes.

B<IupGLSizeBox> can make the layout to be resized larger than the
B<IupGLCanvasBox> size so some controls will be positioned outside the
box area at right or bottom. In fact this is part of the dynamic layout
default reposition of controls inside the box. See the B<IupRefresh>
function. The IUP layout does not have a maximum limit only a minimum,
except if you use the MAXSIZE common attribute.

The box can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IupAppend|../func/iupappend.html> or
L<IupInsert|../func/iupinsert.html>.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

=cut