=head1 Dev-C++ IDE Project Options Guide

=head2
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.bloodshed.netE<47>devcpp.html|http://www.bloodshed.net/devcpp.html>

"Bloodshed Dev-C++ is a full-featured Integrated Development
Environment (IDE) for the C/C++ programming language. It uses Mingw
port of GCC (GNU Compiler Collection) as it's compiler. Dev-C++ can
also be used in combination with Cygwin or any other GCC based
compiler."

It has many features, and integrated debug and it is free! To use IUP
with Dev-C++ you will need to download the "mingw3" binaries in the
download page.

After unpacking the file in your conputer, you must create a new
Project and configure your Project Options. In the Project Options
dialog there are 3 important places:

=over

=item * General / Type - you can configure Win32 GUI or Win32 Console,
but if you set to console it will always create a console screen behind
your window when the program starts. Do not select "Support Windows XP
Themes".

=back

L<[IMAGE]|dev_cpp1.gif>

=over

=item * Parameters / Linker - where you are going to list the libraries
you use, for example:

=back

 -liup
 -liupcontrols
 -lcd
 -liupcd
 -lcomctl32
 -lole32
 -lgdi32 (if Win32 Console)
 -lcomdlg32 (if Win32 Console)

In this configuration you are using also the additional library of
Controls that uses the L<CD library|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/cd>,
also available at the download page.

L<[IMAGE]|dev_cpp2.gif>

=over

=item * Directories / Library Directories and Include Directories -
where you are going to list the include path, for example:

=back

 ..\..\iup\lib\mingw3
 ..\..\cd\lib\mingw3
 or
 c:\tecgraf\iup\lib\mingw3 
 c:\tecgraf\cd\lib\mingw3

And:

 ..\..\iup\include
 ..\..\cd\include
 or
 c:\tecgraf\iup\include
 c:\tecgraf\cd\include

L<[IMAGE]|dev_cpp3.gif> L< [IMAGE]|dev_cpp4.gif>

In some cases the IDE may force the compilation of C files as C++. If
do not want that then uncheck the option in the settings for each file.
Still in the Project Options dialog, in the Files tab, select the file
and uncheck "Compile File as C++".

L<[IMAGE]|dev_cpp5.gif>

=cut