=head1 IupCanvas

Creates an interface element that is a canvas - a working area for your
application.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupCanvas(const char *action); [in C]iup.canvas{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]canvas(action) [in LED]

B<action>: Name of the action generated when the canvas needs to be
redrawn. It can be NULL.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<BACKINGSTORE> [Motif Only]: Controls the canvas backing store flag.
The default value is "YES".

L<BGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_bgcolor.html>: Background color. The background
is painted only if the ACTION callback is not defined. If the callback
is defined the application must draw all the canvas contents. In GTK or
Motif if you set the ACTION callback after map then you should also set
BGCOLOR to any value just after setting the callback or the first
redraw will be lost. Default: "255 255 255".

B<BORDER >(creation only): Shows a border around the canvas. Default:
"YES".

B<CANFOCUS> (creation only) (non inheritable): enables the focus
traversal of the control. Default: YES. (since 3.0)

B<CLIPRECT> [Windows and GTK Only] (only during ACTION): Specifies a
rectangle that has its region invalidated for painting, it could be
used for clipping. Format: "%d %d %d %d"="x1 y1 x2 y2".

L<CURSOR|../attrib/iup_cursor.html> (non inheritable): Defines a cursor
for the canvas.

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html> (non inheritable): The default
value is "YES". The natural size is the size of 1 character.

B<DRAGDROP> [Windows and GTK Only] (non inheritable): Enable or disable
the drag&drop of files. Default: NO, but if DROPFILES_CB is defined
when the element is mapped then it will be automatically enabled.

B<DRAWSIZE >(non inheritable): The size of the drawing area in pixels.
This size is also used in the RESIZE_CB callback.

Notice that the drawing area size is not the same as RASTERSIZE. The
SCROLLBAR and BORDER attributes affect the size of the drawing area.

B<HDC_WMPAINT> [Windows Only] (non inheritable): Contains the HDC
created with the BeginPaint inside the WM_PAINT message. Valid only
during the ACTION callback.

B<HWND> [Windows Only] (non inheritable, read-only): Returns the
Windows Window handle. Available in the Windows driver or in the GTK
driver in Windows.

L<SCROLLBAR|../attrib/iup_scrollbar.html> (creation only): Associates a
horizontal and/or vertical scrollbar to the canvas. Default: "NO". The
secondary attributes are all non inheritable.

L<DX|../attrib/iup_dx.html>: Size of the thumb in the horizontal
scrollbar. Also the horizontal page size. Default: "0.1".

L<DY|../attrib/iup_dy.html>: Size of the thumb in the vertical
scrollbar. Also the vertical page size. Default: "0.1".

L<POSX|../attrib/iup_posx.html>: Position of the thumb in the
horizontal scrollbar. Default: "0.0".

L<POSY|../attrib/iup_posy.html>: Position of the thumb in the vertical
scrollbar. Default: "0.0".

L<XMIN|../attrib/iup_xmin.html>: Minimum value of the horizontal
scrollbar. Default: "0.0".

L<XMAX|../attrib/iup_xmax.html>: Maximum value of the horizontal
scrollbar. Default: "1.0".

L<YMIN|../attrib/iup_ymin.html>: Minimum value of the vertical
scrollbar. Default: "0.0".

L<YMAX|../attrib/iup_ymax.html>: Maximum value of the vertical
scrollbar. Default: "1.0".

B<LINEX>: The amount the thumb moves when an horizontal step is
performed. Default: 1/10th of DX. (since 3.0)

B<LINEY>: The amount the thumb moves when a vertical step is performed.
Default: 1/10th of DY. (since 3.0)

B<X<XAUTOHIDE>XAUTOHIDE>: When enabled, if DX E<gt>= XMAX-XMIN then the
horizontal scrollbar is hidden. Default: "YES". (since 3.0)

B<X<YAUTOHIDE>YAUTOHIDE>: When enabled, if DY E<gt>= YMAX-YMIN then the
vertical scrollbar is hidden. Default: "YES". (since 3.0)

B<XDISPLAY> [UNIX Only](non inheritable, read-only): Returns the
X-Windows Display. Available in the Motif driver or in the GTK driver
in UNIX.

B<XWINDOW> [UNIX Only](non inheritable, read-only): Returns the
X-Windows Window (Drawable). Available in the Motif driver or in the
GTK driver in UNIX.

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<X|../attrib/iup_x.html>, L<Y|../attrib/iup_y.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>, L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Callbacks

L<ACTION|../call/iup_action.html>: Action generated when the canvas
needs to be redrawn.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, float posx, float posy); [in C]elem:action(posx, posy: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<posx>: thumb position in the horizontal scrollbar. The POSX attribute
value.

B<posy>: thumb position in the vertical scrollbar. The POSY attribute
value.

L<BUTTON_CB|../call/iup_button_cb.html>: Action generated when any
mouse button is pressed or released.

L<DROPFILES_CB|../call/iup_dropfiles_cb.html> [Windows and GTK Only]:
Action generated when one or more files are dropped in the element.

B<FOCUS_CB>: Called when the canvas gets or looses the focus. It is
called after the common callbacks GETFOCUS_CB and KILL_FOCUS_CB.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int focus); [in C]elem:focus_cb(focus: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<focus>: is non zero if the canvas is getting the focus, is zero if it
is loosing the focus.

L<MOTION_CB|../call/iup_motion_cb.html>: Action generated when the
mouse is moved.

L<KEYPRESS_CB|../call/iup_keypress_cb.html>: Action generated when a
key is pressed or released. It is called after the common callback
K_ANY.

When the canvas has the focus, pressing the arrow keys may change the
focus to another control in some systems. If your callback process the
arrow keys, we recommend you to return IUP_IGNORE so it will not lose
its focus.

L<RESIZE_CB|../call/iup_resize_cb.html>: Action generated when the
canvas size is changed.

L<SCROLL_CB|../call/iup_scroll_cb.html>: Called when the scrollbar is
manipulated. (GTK 2.8) Also the POSX and POSY values will not be
correctly updated for older GTK versions.

L<WHEEL_CB|../call/iup_wheel_cb.html>: Action generated when the mouse
wheel is rotated.

L<WOM_CB|../call/iup_wom_cb.html> [Windows Only]: Action generated when
an audio device receives an event.

=over

----

=back

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>,
L<GETFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_getfocus_cb.html>,
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_killfocus_cb.html>,
L<ENTERWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_enterwindow_cb.html>,
L<LEAVEWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_leavewindow_cb.html>,
L<K_ANY|../call/iup_k_any.html>, L<HELP_CB|../call/iup_help_cb.html>:
All common callbacks are supported.

=head2 Notes

Note that some keys might remove the focus from the canvas. To avoid
this, return IGNORE in the L< K_ANY|../call/iup_k_any.html> callback.

The mouse cursor position can be programmatically controlled using the
global attribute L<CURSORPOS|../attrib/iup_globals.html#cursorpos>.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

Windows

Classic

Windows

XP Style

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

Motif

GTK

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

=cut