=head1 IupCbox

Creates a Cbox element. It is a B<concrete> layout container, i.e. its
children are positioned in specified coordinates.

The B<IupCbox> is equivalent of a B<IupVbox> or B<IupHbox> where all
the children have the L<FLOATING|../attrib/iup_floating.html> attribute
set to YES, but children must use CX and CY attributes instead of the
POSITION attribute.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupCbox(Ihandle* child, ...); [in C]
 Ihandle* IupCboxv(Ihandle** children); [in C]
 iup.cbox{child, ...: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 cbox(child, ...) [in LED]

B<child>, ... : List of the identifiers that will be placed in the box.
NULL must be used to define the end of the list in C. It can be empty.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<CX, CY> (non inheritable) B<(at children only)>: Position in pixels
of the child relative to the top-left corner of the box. Must be set
for each child inside the box.

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html> (non inheritable): The default
value is "YES".

L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html> /
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html> (non inheritable): Must be
defined for each child. If not defined for the box, then it will be the
bounding box that includes all children in their position.

B<WID> (read-only): returns -1 if mapped.

=over

----

=back

L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|../attrib/iup_clientsize.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Notes

The box can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IupAppend|../func/iupappend.html>.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupVbox|iupvbox.html>, L< IupHbox|iuphbox.html>

=cut