=head1 IupDetachBox (since 3.10)

Creates a detachable void container.

Dragging and dropping this element, it creates a new dialog composed by
its child or elements arranged in it (for example, a child like IupVbox
or IupHbox). During the drag, the ESC key can be pressed to cancel the
action.

It does not have a native representation, but it contains also a
B<IupCanvas> to implement the bar handler.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupDetachBox(Ihandle* child); [in C]
 iup.detachbox{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 detachbox(child) [in LED]

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element that will receive the box.
It can be NULL (nil in Lua), not optional in LED.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<BARSIZE> (non inheritable): controls the size of the bar handler.
Default: 10.

B<COLOR>: Changes the color of the bar grip affordance. The value
should be given in "R G B" color style. Default: "160 160 160". When
SHOWGRIP = NO, this attribute sets the background color of the bar
handler.

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html> (non inheritable): The default
value is "YES".

B<ORIENTATION> (creation only): Indicates the orientation of the bar
handler. The direction of the resize is perpendicular to the
orientation. Possible values are "VERTICAL" or "HORIZONTAL". Default:
"VERTICAL".

B<OLDPARENT_HANDLE> (read only): returns the previous parent of the
detached element. Only valid after the element was detached.

B<OLDBROTHER_HANDLE> (read only): returns the previous reference child
of the detached element. Only valid after the element was detached. See
L<IupReparent|../func/iupreparent.html> for a reference child
definition.

B<DETACH> (write-only): detach the box by creating a new dialog and
placing the box as the child of the new dialog. The callback is called
but its return value is ignored.

B<RESTORE> (write-only): restore the box to its previous place and
destroys the new dialog. Value is ignored.

B<SHOWGRIP> (non inheritable): Shows the bar grip affordance. Default:
YES. When set to NO, the BARSIZE is set to 5.

B<WID> (read-only): returns -1 if mapped.

=over

----

=back

L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>, L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|../attrib/iup_clientsize.html>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|../attrib/iup_clientoffset.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Callbacks

B<DETACHED_CB>: Callback called when the box is detached.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, Ihandle *new_parent, int x, int y); [in C]
 elem:detached_cb(new_parent: ihandle, x, y: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<new_parent>: identifier of the future parent of the box. It is a new
L<IupDialog|../dlg/iupdialog.html> without any attributes, except that
PARENTDIALOG is set to be the current parent.

B<x, y>: dropped position.

Returns: IUP_IGNORE will be processed, in order to cancel the detach
action.

=head2 Notes

The box can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IupAppend|../func/iupappend.html> or
L<IupInsert|../func/iupinsert.html>.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

[IMAGE]

IupDetachBox (ORIENTATION = VERTICAL)

[IMAGE]

New dialog created after the detach action

=cut