=head1 IupFrame

Creates a native container, which draws a frame with a title around its
child.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupFrame(Ihandle *child); [in C]
 iup.frame{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 frame(child) [in LED]

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element which will receive the
frame around. It can be NULL (nil in Lua), not optional in LED.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

L<BGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_bgcolor.html>: ignored, transparent in all
systems. Will use the background color of the native parent. Except if
TITLE is not defined and BGCOLOR is defined before map (can be changed
later), then the frame will have a color background.

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html> (non inheritable): The default
value is "YES".

L<FGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_fgcolor.html>: Text title color. Not available
in Windows when using Windows Visual Styles. Default: the global
attribute DLGFGCOLOR.

B<SUNKEN> (creation only): When not using a title, the frame line
defines a sunken area (lowered area). Valid values: YES or NOI<.>
Default: NO.

L<TITLE|../attrib/iup_title.html> (non inheritable): Text the user will
see at the top of the frame. If not defined during creation it can not
be added lately, to be changed it must be at least "" during creation.

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|../attrib/iup_screenposition.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|../attrib/iup_clientsize.html>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|../attrib/iup_clientoffset.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Callbacks

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>: common callbacks are supported.

=head2 Notes

In Windows, a Frame with TITLE==NULL is not the same control as then
TITLE!=NULL. When TITLE==NULL it does not have Visual Styles and uses a
sharp rectangle border. When TITLE!=NULL it has Visual Styles and the
border is a rounded rectangle. To always use Visual Styles set the
title to "" before mapping, but be aware that a vertical space for the
title will be always reserved at the top border.

The frame can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IupAppend|../func/iupappend.html> or
L<IupInsert|../func/iupinsert.html>.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

  frame1 = IupFrame
          (
            IupVbox
            (
              IupLabel("Label1"),
              IupLabel("Label2"), 
              IupLabel("Label3"),
              NULL
            )
          );
 
  frame2 = IupFrame
          (
            IupVbox
            (
              IupLabel("Label4"), 
              IupLabel("Label5"),
              IupLabel("Label6"),
              NULL
            )
          );
 
  IupSetAttribute(frame1, "TITLE", "Title Text");
  IupSetAttribute(frame2, "SUNKEN", "YES");

Windows Classic

[IMAGE]

Windows w/ Styles

[IMAGE]

Motif

[IMAGE]

GTK

[IMAGE]

=cut