=head1 IupProgressBar (since 3.0)

Creates a progress bar control. Shows a percent value that can be
updated to simulate a progression.

It is similar of B<IupGauge>, but uses native controls internally. Also
does not have support for text inside the bar.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupProgressBar(void); [in C]
 iup.progressbar{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 progressbar() [in LED] 

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

L<BGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_bgcolor.html> [Windows Classic and Motif only]:
controls the background color. Default: the global attribute
DLGBGCOLOR.

B<DASHED> (creation only in Windows) [Windows and GTK only]: Changes
the style of the progress bar for a dashed pattern. Default is "NO".

L<FGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_fgcolor.html> [Windows Classic and Motif only]:
Controls the bar color. Default: the global attribute DLGFGCOLOR.

B<MARQUEE> (creation): displays an undefined state. Default: NO. You
can set the attribute after map but only to start or stop the
animation.

B<MAX >(non inheritable): Contains the maximum value. Default is "1".
The control display is not updated, must set VALUE attribute to update.

B<MIN >(non inheritable): Contains the minimum value. Default is "0".
The control display is not updated, must set VALUE attribute to update.

B<ORIENTATION> (creation only): can be "VERTICAL" or "HORIZONTAL".
Default: "HORIZONTAL". Horizontal goes from left to right, and vertical
from bottom to top.

L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>: The initial size is
defined as "200x30". Set to NULL to allow the use of smaller values in
the layout computation.

B<VALUE >(non inheritable): Contains a number between "MIN" and "MAX",
controlling the current position.

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>,
L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<X|../attrib/iup_x.html>, L<Y|../attrib/iup_y.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>, L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Callbacks

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>: common callbacks are supported.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

DASHED=NO

DASHED=YES

MARQUEE=YES

Motif

[IMAGE]

(same as DASHED=NO)

[IMAGE]

Windows Classic

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

(same as DASHED)

Windows w/ Styles

(same as DASHED=YES)

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

Windows Vista

[IMAGE]

(same as DASHED=NO)

[IMAGE]

GTK

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupGauge|../ctrl/iupgauge.html>

=cut