=head1 IupRadio

Creates a void container for grouping mutual exclusive toggles. Only
one of its descendent toggles will be active at a time. The toggles can
be at any composition.

It does not have a native representation.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupRadio(Ihandle *child); [in C]
 iup.radio{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 radio(child) [in LED]

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element. Usually it is a vbox or
an hbox containing the toggles associated to the radio. It can be NULL
(nil in Lua), not optional in LED.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html> (non inheritable): The default
value is "YES".

B<VALUE> (non inheritable): name identifier of the active toggle. The
name is set by means of L< IupSetHandle|../func/iupsethandle.html>. In
Lua you can also use the element reference directly. When consulted if
the toggles are not mapped into the native system the return value may
be NULL or invalid.

B<VALUE_HANDLE> (non inheritable): Changes the active toggle. The value
passed must be the handle of a child contained in the radio. When
consulted if the toggles are not mapped into the native system the
return value may be NULL or invalid. (since 3.0)

B<WID> (read-only): returns -1 if mapped.

=over

----

=back

L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|../attrib/iup_clientsize.html>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|../attrib/iup_clientoffset.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Notes

The radio can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IupAppend|../func/iupappend.html> or
L<IupInsert|../func/iupinsert.html>.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

=cut