=head1 IupSplit (since 3.1)

Creates a void container that split its client area in two. Allows the
provided controls to be enclosed in a box that allows expanding and
contracting the element B<size> in one direction, but when one is
expanded the other is contracted.

It does not have a native representation, but it contains also a
B<IupCanvas> to implement the bar handler.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupSplit(Ihandle* child1, Ihandle* child2); [in C]
 iup.split{child1, child2: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 split(child1, child2) [in LED]

B<child1>: Identifier of an interface element that will be at left or
top. It can be NULL.

B<child2>: Identifier of an interface element that will be at right or
bottom. It can be NULL.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<AUTOHIDE> (non inheritable): if the child client area is smaller than
the bar size, then automatically hide the child. Default: NO.

B<BARSIZE> (non inheritable): controls the size of the bar handler.
Default: 5.

B<COLOR>: Changes the color of the bar grip affordance. The value
should be given in "R G B" color style. Default: "192 192 192".

B<ORIENTATION> (creation only): Indicates the orientation of the bar
handler. The direction of the resize is perpendicular to the
orientation. Possible values are "VERTICAL" or "HORIZONTAL". Default:
"VERTICAL".

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html> (non inheritable): The default
value is "YES".

B<LAYOUTDRAG> (non inheritable): When the bar is moved automatically
update the children layout. Default: YES. If set to NO then the layout
will be updated only when the mouse drag is released.

B<MINMAX> (non inheritable): sets minimum and maximum crop values for
VALUE, in the format "%d:%d" [min:max]. The min value can not be less
than 0, and the max value can not be larger than 1000. This will
constrain the interactive change of the bar handler. Default: "0:1000".
(Since 3.2)

B<SHOWGRIP> (non inheritable): Shows the bar grip affordance. Default:
YES. When set to NO, the BARSIZE is changed from 5 to 3.

B<VALUE> (non inheritable): The proportion of the left or top (child1)
client area relative to the full available area. It is an integer
between 0 and 1000. If not defined or set to NULL, the Native size of
the two children will define its initial size.

B<WID> (read-only): returns -1 if mapped.

=over

----

=back

L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>, L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|../attrib/iup_clientsize.html>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|../attrib/iup_clientoffset.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Notes

The controls that you want to be resized must have the EXPAND=YES
attribute set. The control inside the split will not be resized with a
size lesser than its B<Natural> size. See the L<Layout
Guide|../layout_guide.html> for mode details on sizes.

The B<IupCanvas> bar handler is always the first child of the split. It
can be obtained using B<IupGetChild> or B< IupGetNextChild>.

The B<IupSplit> control looks just like the B<IupSbox>, but internally
is very different. While sbox controls only one element and can push
other elements outside the dialog, split balance its internal size and
never push other elements outside its boundaries.

The container can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled
using L<IupAppend|../func/iupappend.html> or
L<IupInsert|../func/iupinsert.html>.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

[IMAGE]

Natural Size

[IMAGE]

After Moving the Split Bar

=cut