=head1 IupTree Callbacks

B<SELECTION_CB>: Action generated when a node is selected or
deselected. This action occurs when the user clicks with the mouse or
uses the keyboard with the appropriate combination of keys.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int id, int status) [in C]
 elem:selection_cb(id, status: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<id>: Node identifier.

B<status>: 1=node selected, 0=node unselected.

B<MULTISELECTION_CB>: Action generated after a continuous range of
nodes is selected in one single operation. If not defined the
SELECTION_CB with status=1 will be called for all nodes in the range.
The range is always completely included, independent if some nodes were
already marked. That single operation also guaranties that all other
nodes outside the range are already not selected. Called only if
MARKMODE=MULTIPLE.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int* ids, int n) [in C]
 elem:multiselection_cb(ids: table, n: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<ids>: Array of node identifiers. This array is kept for backward
compatibility, the range is simply defined by ids[0] to ids[n-1], where
C<ids[i+1]=ids[i]+1>.

B<n>: Number of nodes in the array.

B<MULTIUNSELECTION_CB>: Action generated before multiple nodes are
unselected in one single operation. If not defined the SELECTION_CB
with status=0 will be called for all nodes in the range. The range is
not necessarily continuous. Called only if MARKMODE=MULTIPLE. (Since
3.1)

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int* ids, int n) [in C]
 elem:multiunselection_cb(ids: table, n: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<ids>: Array of node identifiers.

B<n>: Number of nodes in the array.

----

B<BRANCHOPEN_CB>: Action generated when a branch is expanded. This
action occurs when the user clicks the "+" sign on the left of the
branch, or when double clicks the branch, or hits Enter on a collapsed
branch.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int id) [in C] 
 elem:branchopen_cb(id: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<id>: node identifier.

Returns: IUP_IGNORE for the branch not to be opened, or IUP_DEFAULT for
the branch to be opened.

B<BRANCHCLOSE_CB>: Action generated when a branch is collapsed. This
action occurs when the user clicks the "-" sign on the left of the
branch, or when double clicks the branch, or hits Enter on an expanded
branch.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int id); [in C]
 elem:branchclose_cb(id: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<id>: node identifier.

Returns: IUP_IGNORE for the branch not to be closed, or IUP_DEFAULT for
the branch to be closed.

B<EXECUTELEAF_CB>: Action generated when a leaf is to be executed. This
action occurs when the user double clicks a leaf, or hits Enter on a
leaf.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int id); [in C] 
 elem:executeleaf_cb(id: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<id>: node identifier.

----

B<SHOWRENAME_CB>: Action generated when a node is about to be renamed.
It occurs when the user clicks twice the node or press B<F2>. Called
only if SHOWRENAME=YES.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int id); [in C]
 elem:showrename_cb(id: number: string) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<id>: node identifier.

Returns: if IUP_IGNORE is returned, the rename is canceled (in GTK the
rename continuous but the edit box is read-only).

B<RENAME_CB>: Action generated after a node was renamed in place. It
occurs when the user press B<Enter> after editing the name, or when the
text box looses it focus. Called only if SHOWRENAME=YES.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int id, char *title); [in C]
 elem:rename_cb(id: number, title: string) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<id>: node identifier.

B<title>: new node title.

Returns: The new title is accepted only if the callback returns
IUP_DEFAULT. If the callback does not exists the new title is always
accepted. If the user pressed B<Enter> and the callback returns
IUP_IGNORE the editing continues. If the text box looses its focus the
editing stops always.

----

B<DRAGDROP_CB>: Action generated when a drag & drop is executed. Only
active if B<SHOWDRAGDROP=YES.>

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int drag_id, int drop_id, int isshift, int iscontrol); [in C] 
 elem:dragdrop_cb(drag_id, drop_id, isshift, iscontrol: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<drag_id>: Identifier of the clicked node where the drag start.

B<drop_id>: Identifier of the clicked node where the drop were
executed.

B<isshift>: Boolean flag indicating the shift key state.

B<iscontrol>: Boolean flag indicating the control key state.

Returns: if returns IUP_CONTINUE, or if the callback is not defined and
B<SHOWDRAGDROP=YES>, then the node is moved to the new position. If
Ctrl is pressed then the node is copied instead of moved. If the drop
node is a branch and it is expanded, then the drag node is inserted as
the first child of the node. If the branch is not expanded or the drop
node is a leaf, then it is inserted as the next brother of the leaf.

B<NODEREMOVED_CB>: Action generated when a node is going to be removed.
It is only a notification, the action can not be aborted. No node
dependent attribute can be consulted during the callback. Not called
when the tree is unmapped. It is useful to remove memory allocated for
the userdata. (since 3.0)

 int function(Ihandle *ih, void* userdata); [in C] 
 elem:noderemoved_cb(userid: userdata/table) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<userdata/userid>: USERDATA attribute in C, or userid object in Lua.

B<RIGHTCLICK_CB>: Action generated when the right mouse button is
pressed over a node.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int id); [in C] 
 elem:rightclick_cb(id: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<id>: node identifier.

----

L<BUTTON_CB|../call/iup_button_cb.html>: Action generated when any
mouse button is pressed or released inside the element. Use
L<IupConvertXYToPos|../func/iupconvertxytopos.html> to convert (x,y)
coordinates in the node identifier. (since 3.0)

L<MOTION_CB|../call/iup_motion_cb.html>: Action generated when the
mouse is moved over the element. Use
L<IupConvertXYToPos|../func/iupconvertxytopos.html> to convert (x,y)
coordinates in item the node identifier. (since 3.0)

L<DROPFILES_CB|../call/iup_dropfiles_cb.html> [Windows and GTK Only]:
Action generated when one or more files are dropped in the element.
(since 3.0)

----

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>,
L<GETFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_getfocus_cb.html>,
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_killfocus_cb.html>,
L<ENTERWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_enterwindow_cb.html>,
L<LEAVEWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_leavewindow_cb.html>,
L<K_ANY|../call/iup_k_any.html>, L<HELP_CB|../call/iup_help_cb.html>:
All common callbacks are supported.

In Motif the tree always resets the focus to the first node when
receive the focus. The KILLFOCUS_CB callback is called only when the
focus is at the first node. Also in Motif some LEAVEWINDOW_CB events
are delayed to when the user enter again, firing a leave and enter
events at enter time.

=cut