=head1 IupTree Attributes

=head2 X<global>General

B<ADDEXPANDED> (non inheritable): Defines if branches will be expanded
when created. The branch will be actually expanded when it receives the
first child. Possible values: "YES" = The branches will be created
expanded; "NO" = The branches will be created collapsed. Default:
"YES".

B<ADDROOT> (non inheritable): automatically adds an empty branch as the
first node when the tree is mapped. Default: "YES". (Since 3.1)

B<AUTOREDRAW> [Windows] (non inheritable): automatically redraws the
tree when something has change. Set to NO to add many items to the tree
without updating the display. Default: "YES". (since 3.3)

L<BGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_bgcolor.html>: Background color of the tree.
Default: the global attribute TXTBGCOLOR.

B<CANFOCUS> (creation only) (non inheritable): enables the focus
traversal of the control. In Windows the control will still get the
focus when clicked. Default: YES. (since 3.0)

B<COUNT> (read only) (non inheritable): returns the total number of
nodes in the tree. (since 3.0)

B<DRAGDROP> [Windows and GTK Only] (non inheritable): Enable or disable
the drag&drop of files. Default: NO, but if DROPFILES_CB is defined
when the element is mapped then it will be automatically enabled. This
is NOT related to the drag&drop of nodes inside the tree. (since 3.0)

B<DROPEQUALDRAG> (non inheritable): if enabled will allow a drop node
to be equal to the drag node. Used only if SHOWDRAGDROP =Yes. In the
case the nodes are equal the callback return value is ignored and
nothing is done after. (since 3.3)

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html> (non inheritable): The default
value is "YES".

B<FGCOLOR>: default text foreground color. Once each node is created it
will not change its color when FGCOLOR is changed. Default: the global
attribute TXTFGCOLOR. (since 3.0)

B<HIDEBUTTONS> (creation only): hide the expand and collapse buttons.
In GTK, branches will be only expanded programmatically. In Motif it
did not work and crash the test. (since 3.0) (GTK 2.12)

B<HIDELINES> (creation only): hide the lines that connect the nodes in
the hierarchy. (since 3.0) (GTK 2.10)

B<INDENTATION>: sets the indentation level in pixels. The visual effect
of changing the indentation is highly system dependent. In GTK it acts
as an additional indent value, and the lines do not follow the extra
indent. In Windows is limited to a minimum of 5 pixels. (since 3.0)
(GTK 2.12)

L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html> (non inheritable): the
initial size is "400x200". Set to NULL to allow the automatic layout
use smaller values.

B<SHOWDRAGDROP> (creation only) (non inheritable): Enables the drag and
drop of nodes, and enables the B<DRAGDROP_CB> callback. Default: "NO".
Works only if MARKMODE=SINGLE.

B<SPACING>: vertical internal padding for each node. Notice that the
distance between each node will be actually 2x the spacing. (since 3.0)

B<TOPITEM> (write-only): position the given node identifier at the top
of the tree or near to make it visible. If any parent node is collapsed
then they are automatically expanded. (since 3.0)

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>,
L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|../attrib/iup_screenposition.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>, L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

The NAME common attribute is still not supported because of a backward
compatibility code. Old applications must change the use of the old
NAME attribute to TITLE, so the new NAME common attribute can be
enabled in future versions.

=head2 X<nodes>Nodes (non inheritable)

For these attributes "id" is the specified branch identifier. If id is
empty, then the focus node is used as the specified node.

B<CHILDCOUNTid> (read only): returns the immediate children count of
the specified branch. It does not count children of child that are
branches. (since 3.0)

B<COLORid>: text foreground color of the specified node. The value
should be a string in the format "R G B" where R, G, B are numbers from
0 to 255.

B<DEPTHid >(read only): returns the depth of the specified node. The
first node has depth=0, its immediate children has depth=1, their
children has depth=2 and so on.

B<KINDid >(read only): returns the kind of the specified node. Possible
values:

=over

=over

=item * "LEAF": The node is a leaf

=item * "BRANCH": The node is a branch

=back

=back

B<PARENTid >(read only): returns the identifier of the specified node.

B<STATEid>: the state of the specified branch. Returns NULL for a LEAF.
In Windows, it will be effective only if the branch has children. In
GTK, it will be effective only if the parent is expanded. Possible
values:

=over

=over

=item * "EXPANDED": Expanded branch state (shows its children)

=item * "COLLAPSED": Collapsed branch state (hides its children)

=back

=back

B<TITLEid>: the text label of the specified node.

B<TITLEFONTid>: the text font of the specified node. The format is the
same as the L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html> attribute. (since 3.0)

B<TOTALCHILDCOUNTid> (read only): returns the total children count of
the specified branch. It counts all grandchildren. (since 3.0)

B<USERDATAid>: the user data associated with the specified node. (since
3.0)

=head2 X<images>Images (non inheritable)

B<IMAGEid>: image name to be used in the specified node, where id is
the specified node identifier. If id is empty, then the focus node is
used as the specified node. Use
L<IupSetHandle|../func/iupsethandle.html> or
L<IupSetAttributeHandle|../func/iupsetattributehandle.html> to
associate an image to a name. See also L<IupImage|iupimage.html>. In
Windows and Motif set the BGCOLOR attribute before setting the image.
If node is a branch it is used when collapsed.

B<IMAGEEXPANDEDid>: same as the IMAGE attribute but used for expanded
branches.

B<IMAGELEAF>: the image name that will be shown for all leaves.
Default: "IMGLEAF". Internal values "IMGBLANK" and "IMGPAPER" are also
available. If BGCOLOR is set the image is automatically updated.

B<IMAGEBRANCHCOLLAPSED>: the image name that will be shown for all
collapsed branches. Default: "IMGCOLLAPSED". If BGCOLOR is set the
image is automatically updated.

B<IMAGEBRANCHEXPANDED>: the image name that will be shown for all
expanded branches. Default: "IMGEXPANDED". If BGCOLOR is set the image
is automatically updated.

=head2 X<focus>Focus Node

B<VALUE> (non inheritable): The focus node identifier. When retrieved
but there isn't a node with focus it returns 0 if there are any nodes,
and returns -1 if there are no nodes. When changed and MARKMODE=SINGLE
the node is also selected. The tree is always scrolled so the node
becomes visible. In Motif the tree will also receive the focus.
Additionally accepts the values:

=over

"ROOT" or "FIRST": the first node

"LAST": the last visible node

"NEXT": the next visible node, one node after the focus node. If at the
last does nothing

"PREVIOUS": the previous visible node, one node before the focus node.
If at the first does nothing

"PGDN": the next visible node, ten nodes node after the focus node. If
at the last does nothing

"PGUP": the previous visible node, ten nodes before the focus node. If
at the first does nothing

=back

=head2 X<marks0>Marks

B<MARK> (write only) (non inheritable): Selects a range of nodes in the
format "start-end" (%d-%d). Allowed only when MARKMODE=MULTIPLE. Also
accepts the values:

=over

"INVERTid": Inverts the specified node mark state, where id is the
specified node identifier. If id is empty, then the focus node is used
as reference node.

"BLOCK": Marks all nodes between the focus node and the initial
block-marking node defined by MARKSTART

"CLEARALL": Unmark all nodes

"MARKALL": Marks all nodes

"INVERTALL": Inverts the marking of all nodes

=back

B<MARKEDid> (non inheritable): The selection state of the specified
node, where id is the specified node identifier. If id is empty, then
the focus node is used as reference node. Can be: YES or NO. Default:
NO

B<MARKEDNODES> (non inheritable): The selection state of all nodes when
MARKMODE=MULTIPLE. It is/accepts a sequence of '+' and '-' symbols
indicating the state of each item ('+'=selected, '-'=unselected. When
setting this value, if the number of specified symbols is smaller than
the total count then the remaining nodes will not be changed. (since
3.1)

B<MARKMODE>: defines how the nodes can be selected. Can be: SINGLE or
MULTIPLE. Default: SINGLE.

B<MARKSTART> (non inheritable): Defines the initial node for the block
marking, used when MARK=BLOCK. The value must be the node identifier.
Default: 0 (first node).

=head2 X<tree>Hierarchy (non inheritable)

B<ADDLEAF>B<id> (write only): Adds a new leaf after the reference
node, where id is the reference node identifier. If id is empty, then
the focus node is used as reference node. Use id=-1 to add the first
node in an empty tree. The value is used as the text label of the new
node. The id of the new node will be the id of the reference node + 1.
The attribute B<LASTADDNODE> is set to the new id. The reference node
is marked and all others unmarked. The reference node position remains
the same. If the reference node does not exist, nothing happens. If the
reference node is a branch then the depth of the new node is one depth
increment from the depth of the reference node, if the reference node
is a leaf then the new node has the same depth. If you need to add a
node after a specified node but at a different depth use B<
INSERTLEAF>. Ignored if set before map.

B<ADDBRANCHid >(write only): Same as B<ADDLEAF> for branches. Branches
can be created expanded or collapsed depending on B<ADDEXPANDED>.
Ignored if set before map.

B<COPYNODEid >(write only): Copies a node and its children, where id is
the specified node identifier. If id is empty, then the focus node is
used as the specified node. The value is the destination node
identifier. If the destination node is a branch and it is expanded,
then the specified node is inserted as the first child of the
destination node. If the branch is not expanded or the destination node
is a leaf, then it is inserted as the next brother of the leaf. The
specified node is not changed. All node attributes are copied, except
user data. Ignored if set before map. (since 3.0)

B<DELNODEid >(write only): Removes a node and/or its children, where id
is the specified node identifier. If id is empty, then the focus node
is used as the specified node. Ignored if set before map. Possible
values:

=over

=over

=item * "ALL": deletes all nodes, id is ignored (Since 3.1)

=item * "SELECTED": deletes the specified node and its children

=item * "CHILDREN": deletes only the children of the specified node

=item * "MARKED": deletes all the selected nodes (and all their
children), id is ignored

=back

=back

B<EXPANDALL >(write only): expand or contracts all nodes. Can be YES
(expand all), or NO (contract all). (since 3.0)

B<INSERTLEAFid>, B<INSERTBRANCHid > (write only): Same as B<ADDLEAF>
and B<ADDBRACH> but the depth of the new node is always the same of the
reference node. If the reference node is a leaf, then the id of the new
node will be the id of the reference node + 1. If the reference node is
a branch the id of the new node will be the id of the reference node +
1 + the total number of child nodes of the reference node. (since 3.0)

B<MOVENODEid >(write only): Moves a node and its children, where id is
the specified node identifier. If id is empty, then the focus node is
used as the specified node. The value is the destination node
identifier. If the destination node is a branch and it is expanded,
then the specified node is inserted as the first child of the
destination node. If the branch is not expanded or the destination node
is a leaf, then it is inserted as the next brother of the leaf. The
specified node is removed. User data and all node attributes are
preserved. Ignored if set before map. (since 3.0)

=head2 X<edit>Editing

B<RENAME >(write only): Forces a rename action to take place. Valid
only when SHOWRENAME=YES.

RENAMECARET (write only): the caretE<rsquo>s position of the text
box when in-place renaming. Same as the CARET attribute for
L<IupText|iuptext.html#Attributes>, but here is used only once after
SHOWRENAME_CB is called and before the text box is shown.

RENAMESELECTION (write only): the selection interval of the text box
when in-place renaming. Same as the SELECTION attribute for
L<IupText|iuptext.html#Attributes>, but here is used only once after
SHOWRENAME_CB is called and before the text box is shown.

B<SHOWRENAME> (creation in Windows) (non inheritable): Allows the in
place rename of a node. Default: "NO". Since IUP 3.0, F2 and clicking
twice only starts to rename a node if SHOWRENAME=Yes. In Windows must
be set to YES before map, but can be changed later (since 3.3).

=cut