=head1 General Attributes

 long int cdCanvasForeground(cdCanvas* canvas, long int color); [in C]
 void cdCanvasSetForeground(cdCanvas* canvas, long int color); [in C]
 
 canvas:Foreground(color: lightuserdata) -> (old_color: lightuserdata) [in Lua]
 canvas:SetForeground(color: lightuserdata) [in Lua]

Configures a new current foreground color and returns the previous one.
This color is used in all primitives (lines, areas, marks and text).
Default value: B< C<CD_BLACK>>. Value C<B<CD_QUERY> >simply returns the
current value.

Notice that CD_QUERY conflicts with color RGBA=(255,255,255,0) (full
transparent white). Use B<SetForeground> to avoid the conflict. See
also L<Color Coding|color.html>.

 long int cdCanvasBackground(cdCanvas* canvas, long int color); [in C]
 void cdCanvasSetBackground(cdCanvas* canvas, long int color); [in C]
 
 canvas:Background(color: lightuserdata) -> (old_color: lightuserdata) [in Lua]
 canvas:SetBackground(color: lightuserdata) [in Lua]

Configures the new current background color and returns the previous
one. However, it does not automatically change the background of a
canvas. For such, it is necessary to call the B<Clear> function. The
background color only makes sense for B<Clear>C< >and for primitives
affected by the background opacity attribute. Default value:
B<C<CD_WHITE>>. Value C<B<CD_QUERY> >simply returns the current value.

Notice that CD_QUERY conflicts with color RGBA=(255,255,255,0) (full
transparent white). Use B<SetBackground> to avoid the conflict. See
also L<Color Coding|color.html>.

 int cdCanvasWriteMode(cdCanvas* canvas, int mode); [in C]
 
 canvas:WriteMode(mode: number) -> (old_mode: number) [in Lua]

Defines the writing type for all drawing primitives. Values:
B<C<CD_REPLACE>>, B<C<CD_XOR>> or B<C<CD_NOT_XOR>>. Returns the
previous value. Default value: B<C<CD_REPLACE>>. Value C<B<CD_QUERY> >
simply returns the current value.

Note: operation XOR is very useful, because, using white as the
foreground color and drawing the same image twice, you can go back to
the original color, before the drawing. This is commonly used for mouse
selection feedback.

=cut