=head1 System

 char* cdVersion(void); [in C]
 
 cd.Version() -> (version: string) [in Lua]

Returns the current version number of the library. The string with the
version number has a format "major.minor.build". For instance, the
string "2.1.3" has number 2 as the main (major) version number, 1 as
the secondary (minor) version number, and 3 as the build number. The
major version number represents a change in the structure or behavior
of functions; the minor version number represents one or more new
drivers and functions added to the library; and the build version
number represents one or more corrected bugs.

 char* cdVersionDate(void); [in C]
 
 cd.VersionDate() -> (versiondate: string) [in Lua]

Returns the release date of the current version of the library.

 int cdVersionNumber(void); [in C]
 
 cd.VersionNumber() -> (version: number) [in Lua]

Returns the current version number of the library.

 [in C]
 CD_NAME           "CD - Canvas Draw"
 CD_DESCRIPTION    "A 2D Graphics Library"
 CD_COPYRIGHT      "Copyright (C) 1994-2007 Tecgraf/PUC-Rio and PETROBRAS S/A"
 CD_VERSION        "5.0"
 CD_VERSION_DATE   "2007/04/09"
 CD_VERSION_NUMBER 500000
 
 [in Lua]
 cd._NAME
 cd._DESCRIPTION
 cd._COPYRIGHT
 cd._VERSION
 cd._VERSION_DATE
 cd._VERSION_NUMBER

Useful definitions. They have the same value returned by B<cdVersion>*
functions, except that they do not include the build number.

----

=head1 Metafile Interpretation

 int cdCanvasPlay(cdCanvas* canvas, cdContext* ctx, int xmin, int xmax, int ymin, int ymax, void *data); [in C]
 
 canvas:Play(ctx, xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax: number, data: string) -> (status: number) [in Lua]

Interprets the graphical contents (primitives and attributes) in a
given driver and calls equivalent functions of the CD library using the
given canvas. The primitives are drawn inside the region defined by the
given limits. If limits are 0 (xmin, xmax, ymin and ymax) the
primitives will be drawn with their coordinates having the original
values in the file.

Only some drivers implement this function:

=over

=item * L<B< CD_CLIPBOARD>|../drv/clipbd.html> = Clipboard, data is
ignored.

=item * L<B< CD_WMF>|../drv/wmf.html> = Windows Metafile, data is a
B<char*> for the string ''I<filename>''. Works only in the MS Windows
system.

=item * L<B< CD_EMF>|../drv/emf.html> = Windows Enhanced Metafile, data
is a B<char*> for the string ''I<filename>''. Works only in the MS
Windows system.

=item * L<B< CD_CGM>|../drv/cgm.html> = Computer Graphics Metafile ISO,
data is a B<char*> for the string ''I<filename>''.

=item * L<B< CD_METAFILE>|../drv/mf.html> = CD Metafile, data is a
B<char*> for the string ''I<filename>''.

=item * L<B< CD_PICTURE>|../drv/picture.html> = CD Picture, data is a
B<cdCanvas>B<*> of the Picture canvas.

=back

 int cdContextRegisterCallback(cdContext *ctx, int cb, int(*func)(cdCanvas* canvas, ...)); [in C]
 
 cd.ContextRegisterCallback(ctx, cb: number, func: function) -> (status: number) [in Lua]

Used to customize the behavior of the B<Play> function. If you register
a known callback function, it will be called during the processing loop
of B<cdCanvasPlay>. Returns CD_OK if the specified callback is
supported or CD_ERROR otherwise.

The callback itself should return CD_CONTINUE, if it returns CD_ABORT,
the cdPlay function is aborted. The callback identifiers of a given
driver must be in the header file relative to that driver, with prefix
"CD_XXYYYCB", where XX identifies that driver and YYY identifies the
callback name.

There is a default callback common to all implementations of cdPlay,
B<CD_SIZECB>. Its definition is:

 int cdResizeCB(cdCanvas* canvas, int width, int height, double mm_width, double mm_height)

It returns the size of the image in the file before any function in the
CD library is called, so that you can call the cdPlay function without
an active canvas and create the canvas inside the callback. It works as
a B< cdCanvasGetSize> function.

=cut