=head1 Vector Text

It is a text that uses a font created only with line segments. It is
very useful to be scaled and very fast. You must set the text size
before drawing any text. The default direction is horizontal from left
to right.

Vector Text Parameters

[IMAGE]

All vector text drawing in all drivers are simulated with other CD
primitives using polygons only.

----

 void cdCanvasVectorText(cdCanvas* canvas, int x, int y, const char* text); [in C]
 void wdCanvasVectorText(cdCanvas* canvas, double x, double y, const char* text); (WC) [in C]
     
 canvas:VectorText(x, y: number, text: string) [in Lua]
 canvas:wVectorText(x, y: number, text: string) (WC) [in Lua]

Draws a vector text in position C<B<(x,y)>>, respecting the alignment
defined by B<cdTextAlignment>. It ignores the configuration
B<cdBackOpacity>, being always transparent. It accepts strings with
multiple lines using '\n'. It is ESSENTIAL to call B<cdVectorTextSize>
or B<cdVectorCharSize> before using this function.

The B<wdCanvasVectorText> is the only function that actually depends on
World Coordinates. The other Vector Text functions although use the
"B<wd>" prefix they do not depend on World Coordinates. They are kept
with these names for backward compatibility. The correct prefix would
be "B<cdf>".

=head2 Attributes

 void cdCanvasVectorTextDirection(cdCanvas* canvas, int x1, int y1, int x2, int y2); [in C]
 void wdCanvasVectorTextDirection(cdCanvas* canvas, double x1, double y1, double x2, double y2); [in C]
 
 canvas:VectorTextDirection(x1, y1, x2, y2: number) [in Lua]
 canvas:wVectorTextDirection(x1, y1, x2, y2: number) [in Lua]

Defines the text direction by means of two points, B<C<(x1,y1)>> and B<
C<(x2,y2)>>. The default direction is horizontal from left to right. It
is independent from the transformation matrix.

 double* cdCanvasVectorTextTransform(cdCanvas* canvas, const double* matrix); [in C]
 
 canvas:VectorTextTransform(matrix: table) -> (old_matrix: table) [in Lua] 

Defines a transformation matrix with 6 elements. If the matrix is NULL,
no transformation is set. The default is no transformation. The origin
is the left bottom corner of matrix. It returns the previous matrix,
and the returned vector is only valid until the following call to the
function.

The matrix contains scale, rotation and translation elements. It is
applied after computing the position and orientation normal to the
vector text. We can describe the elements as follows:

 |x'|   | scl_x*cos(ang)       -sin(ang)  trans_x |   |x|                     | 3   4   5| 
 |y'| = |       sin(ang)  scl_y*cos(ang)  trans_y | * |y|      with indices   | 0   1   2|
                                                      |1|

It has the same effect of the B< cdCanvasTransform,> but notice that
the indices are different.

 void cdCanvasVectorTextSize(cdCanvas* canvas, int width, int height, const char * text); [in C]
 void wdCanvasVectorTextSize(cdCanvas* canvas, double width, double height, const char* text); [in C]
 
 canvas:VectorTextSize(width, height: number, text: string) [in Lua]
 canvas:wVectorTextSize(width, height: number, text: string) [in Lua]

Modifies the font size of the vector text so that it fits the string in
the box defined by B<C<width>> and B<C<height>>.

 double cdCanvasVectorCharSize(cdCanvas* canvas, int size); [in C]
 double wdCanvasVectorCharSize(cdCanvas* canvas, double size); [in C]
 
 canvas:VectorCharSize(size: number) -> (old_size: number) [in Lua]
 canvas:wVectorCharSize(size: number) -> (old_size: number) [in Lua]

Modifies the font size by specifying the height of the characters.
Returns the previous value. B<C<CD_QUERY>> returns the current value.

 void cdCanvasVectorFontSize(cdCanvas* canvas, double size_x, double size_x); [in C]
 
 canvas:VectorFontSize(size_x, size_y: number) [in Lua]

Directly modifies the font size. Set size_x==size_y to maintain the
original aspect ratio of the font.

 void cdCanvasGetVectorFontSize(cdCanvas* canvas, double *size_x, double *size_x); [in C]
 
 canvas:GetVectorFontSize() -> (size_x, size_y: number) [in Lua]

Returns the font size. It is not necessary to provide all return
pointers, you can provide only the desired values and NULL for the
others.

 char* cdCanvasVectorFont(cdCanvas* canvas, const char *filename); [in C]
 
 canvas:VectorFont(filename: string) -> (fontname: string) [in Lua]

Replaces the current vector font with a font stored in a file with a
given name. Returns the name of the font loaded or NULL, if it fails.
If filename is NULL, it activates the default font "B<Simplex II>"
(There is no file associated to this font, it is an embedded font). The
library will attempt to load a font from the current directory, if it
fails then it will try the directory defined by the environment
variable "B<C<CDDIR>>", if it fails, it will attempt to load it using
the filename as a string containing the font as if the file was loaded
into that string, if it fails again the font is reset to the default
font and returns NULL. The file format is compatible with the GKS file
format (text mode).

=head2 Properties

 void cdCanvasGetVectorTextSize(cdCanvas* canvas, const char* text, int *width, int *height); [in C]
 void wdCanvasGetVectorTextSize(cdCanvas* canvas, const char* text, double *width, double *height); [in C]
 
 canvas:GetVectorTextSize(text: string) -> (width, height: number) [in Lua]
 canvas:wGetVectorTextSize(text: string) -> (width, height: number) [in Lua]

Returns the text size independent from orientation. It is not necessary
to provide all return pointers, you can provide only the desired values
and NULL for the others.

 void cdCanvasGetVectorTextBounds(cdCanvas* canvas, char* text, int x, int y, int *rect); [in C]
 void wdCanvasGetVectorTextBounds(cdCanvas* canvas, char* text, double x, double y, double *rect); [in C]
 
 canvas:GetVectorTextBounds(text: string, x, y: number) -> (rect: table) [in Lua]
 canvas:wGetVectorTextBounds(text: string, x, y: number) -> (rect: table) [in Lua] 

Returns the oriented bounding rectangle occupied by a text at a given
position. The rectangle has the same dimentions returned by B<
GetVectorTextSize>. The rectangle corners are returned in counter-clock
wise order starting with the bottom left corner, arranged
(x0,y0,x1,y1,x2,y2,x3,y3).

 void cdCanvasGetVectorTextBox(cdCanvas* canvas, int x, int y, const char* text, int *xmin, int *xmax, int *ymin, int *ymax); [in C]
 void wdCanvasGetVectorTextBox(cdCanvas* canvas, double x, double y, const char* text, double *xmin, double *xmax, double *ymin, double *ymax); [in C]
 
 canvas:GetVectorTextBox(x, y: number, text: string) -> (xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax: number) [in Lua]
 canvas:wGetVectorTextBox(x, y: number, text: string) -> (xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax: number) [in Lua]

Returns the horizontal bounding rectangle occupied by a text at a given
position. If orientation is not 0 then its area is always larger than
the area of the rectangle returned by B<GetVectorTextBounds>. It is not
necessary to provide all return pointers, you can provide only the
desired values and I<C<NULL>> for the others.

=head2 Character Codes

The old GKS format contains ASCII codes so a convertion from ANSI to
ASCII is done when possible, unmapped characters are left unchanged,
but some rearrage was necessary to acomodate the convertion.

The default vector font was changed from the original Simplex II to
contain all ANSI accented characters. So some ASCII characters were
replaced.

Bellow is the character code table of the default font.

[IMAGE]

B<Default Font>

The original Simplex II font is available in the file
"cd/etc/vectorfont00.txt". Bellow is the character code table of the
original font (the table displays the characters after the convertion
from ANSI to ASCII):

[IMAGE]

B<Original Simplex II>

=cut