=head1 SIZE (non inheritable)

Specifies the element B<User> size, and returns the B<Current> size, in
units proportional to the size of a character.

See the L<Layout Guide|../layout_guide.html> for more details on sizes.

=head2 Value

"I<width>xI<height>", where width and height are integer values
corresponding to the horizontal and vertical size, respectively, in
characters fraction unit (see Notes below).

You can also set only one of the parameters by removing the other one
and maintaining the separator "x", but this is equivalent of setting
the other value to 0. For example: "x40" (height only = "0x40") or
"40x" (width only = "40x0").

When this attribute is consulted the B<Current> size of the control is
returned.

=head2 Notes

The size units observes the following heuristics:

=over

=item * Width in 1/4's of the average width of a character for the
current B<FONT> of each control.

=item * Height in 1/8's of the average height of a character for the
current B<FONT> of each control.

=back

So, a SIZE="4x8" means 1 character width and 1 character height.

Notice that this is the average character size, the space occupied by a
specific string is always different than its number of character times
its average character size, except when using a monospaced font like
Courier. Usually for common strings this size is smaller than the
actual size, so it is a good practice to leave more room than expected
if you use the SIZE attribute. For smaller font sizes this difference
is more noticeable than for larger font sizes.

When this attribute is changed, the L<RASTERSIZE|iup_rastersize.html>
attribute is automatically updated.

SIZE depends on L<FONT|iup_font.html>, so when B<FONT> is changed and
B<SIZE> is set, then B<RASTERSIZE> is also updated.

The average character size of the current B<FONT> can be obtained from
the L<CHARSIZE|iup_font3.html#CHARSIZE> attribute.

To obtain the last computed B<Natural> size of the control in pixels,
use the read-only attribute L<NATURALSIZE|iup_naturalsize.html>. (Since
3.6)

----

A B<User> size of "0x0" can be set, it can also be set using NULL.

If you wish to use the B<User> size only as an initial size, change
this attribute to NULL after the control is mapped, the returned size
in B<IupGetAttribute> will still be the B<Current> size.

The element is NOT immediately repositioned. Call B<IupRefresh> to
update the dialog layout.

B<IupMap> also updates the dialog layout even if it is already mapped,
so calling it or calling B<IupShow>, B<IupShowXY> or B<IupPopup> (they
all call B<IupMap>) will also update the dialog layout.

See the L<Layout Guide|../layout_guide.html> for mode details on sizes.

=head2 Affects

All, except menus.

=head2 See Also

L<FONT|iup_font.html>, L<RASTERSIZE|iup_rastersize.html>,
L<IupRefresh|../func/iuprefresh.html>

=cut