=head1 CURSOR (non inheritable)

Defines the element's cursor.

=head2 Value

Name of a cursor.

It will check first for the following predefined names:

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

Name

"NONE" or "NULL"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"ARROW"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"BUSY"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"CROSS"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"HAND"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"HELP"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"MOVE"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"PEN" (*)

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_N"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_S"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_NS"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_W"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_E"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_WE"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_NE"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_SW"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_NW"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"RESIZE_SE"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"TEXT"

[IMAGE]

----

"APPSTARTING" (Windows Only)

[IMAGE]

----

"NO" (Windows Only)

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"UPARROW"

Default: "ARROW"

(*) To use these cursors on Windows, the B<iup.rc> file, provided with
IUP, must be linked with the application (except when using the IUP
DLL).

The GTK cursors have the same appearance of the X-Windows cursors.
Althought GTK cursors can have more than 2 colors depending on the
X-Server.

If it is not a pre-defined name, then will check for other system
cursors. In Windows the value will be used to load a cursor form the
application resources. In Motif the value will be used as a X-Windows
cursor number, see definitions in the X11 header "cursorfont.h". In GTK
the value will be used as a cursor name, see the GDK documentation on
Cursors.

If no system cursors were found then the value will be used to try to
find an IUP image with the same name. Use B<IupSetHandle> to define a
name for an B<IupImage>. But the image will need an extra attribute and
some specific characteristics, see notes below.

=head2 Notes

For an image to represent a cursor, it should has the attribute
"B<HOTSPOT"> to define the cursor hotspot (place where the mouse click
is actually effective). The default value is "0:0".

Usually only color indices 0, 1 and 2 can be used in a cursor, where 0
will be transparent (must be "BGCOLOR"). The RGB colors corresponding
to indices 1 and 2 are defined just as in regular images. In Windows
and GTK the cursor can have more than 2 colors. Cursor sizes are
usually less than or equal to 32x32.

The cursor will only change when the interface system regains control
or when IupFlush is called.

The Windows SDK recommends that cursors and icons should be implemented
as resources rather than created at run time.

When the cursor image is no longer necessary, it must be destroyed
through function L<IupDestroy|../func/iupdestroy.html>. Attention: the
cursor cannot be in use when it is destroyed.

=head2 Affects

L<IupDialog|../dlg/iupdialog.html>, L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>

=head2 See Also

L<IupImage|../elem/iupimage.html>

=cut