=head1 SCROLLBAR (creation only)

Associates a horizontal and/or vertical scrollbar to the element.

=head2 Value

"VERTICAL", "HORIZONTAL", "YES" (both) or "NO" (none).

Default: "NO"

=head2 Configuration Attributes (non inheritable)

L<DX|../attrib/iup_dx.html>: Size of the thumb in the horizontal
scrollbar. Also the horizontal page size. Default: "0.1".

L<DY|../attrib/iup_dy.html>: Size of the thumb in the vertical
scrollbar. Also the vertical page size. Default: "0.1".

L<POSX|../attrib/iup_posx.html>: Position of the thumb in the
horizontal scrollbar. Default: "0.0".

L<POSY|../attrib/iup_posy.html>: Position of the thumb in the vertical
scrollbar. Default: "0.0".

L<XMIN|../attrib/iup_xmin.html>: Minimum value of the horizontal
scrollbar. Default: "0.0".

L<XMAX|../attrib/iup_xmax.html>: Maximum value of the horizontal
scrollbar. Default: "1.0".

L<YMIN|../attrib/iup_ymin.html>: Minimum value of the vertical
scrollbar. Default: "0.0".

L<YMAX|../attrib/iup_ymax.html>: Maximum value of the vertical
scrollbar. Default: "1.0".

B<LINEX>: The amount the thumb moves when an horizontal step is
performed. Default: 1/10th of DX. (since 3.0)

B<LINEY>: The amount the thumb moves when a vertical step is performed.
Default: 1/10th of DY. (since 3.0)

B<X<XAUTOHIDE>XAUTOHIDE>: When enabled, if DX E<gt>= XMAX-XMIN then the
horizontal scrollbar is hidden. Default: "YES". (since 3.0)

B<X<YAUTOHIDE>YAUTOHIDE>: When enabled, if DY E<gt>= YMAX-YMIN then the
vertical scrollbar is hidden. Default: "YES". (since 3.0)

=head2 Notes

The scrollbar allows you to create a virtual space associated to the
element. In the image below, such space is marked in B<red>, as well as
the attributes that affect the composition of this space. In B<green>
you can see how these attributes are reflected on the scrollbar.

images/scrollbar.gif (2113 bytes)

Hence you can clearly deduce that POSX is limited to XMIN and XMAX-DX,
or B<XMINE<lt>=POSXE<lt>=XMAX-DX>.

Usually applications configure XMIN and XMAX to a region in World
coordinates, and set DX to the canvas visible area in World
coordinates. Since the canvas can have scrollbars and borders, its
visible area in pixel coordinates can be easily obtained using the
B<DRAWSIZE> attribute.

B<IMPORTANT:> the LINEX, XMAX and XMIN attributes are only updated in
the scrollbar when the DX attribute is updated.

B<IMPORTANT:> when working with a virtual space with integer
coordinates, set XMAX to the integer size of the virtual space, NOT to
"width-1", or the last pixel of the virtual space will never be
visible. If you decide to let XMAX with the default value of 1.0 and to
control only DX, then use the formula DX=visible_width/width.

When the virtual space has the same size as the canvas, DX equals
XMAX-XMIN, the scrollbar is automatically hidden if B<XAUTOHIDE>=Yes.
The width of the vertical scrollbar (the same as the height of the
horizontal scrollbar) can be obtained using the SCROLLBARSIZE global
attribute (since 3.9).

The same is valid for YMIN, YMAX, DY and POSY. But remember that the Y
axis is oriented from top to bottom in IUP. So if you want to consider
YMIN and YMAX as bottom-up oriented, then the actual YPOS must be
obtained using B< YMAX-DY-POSY>.

Changes in the scrollbar parameters do NOT generate ACTION nor
SCROLL_CB callback events. If you need to update the canvas contents
call your own action callback or call B<IupUpdate>.

If you have to change the properties of the scrollbar (XMIN, XMAX and
DX) but you want to keep the thumb still (if possible) in the same
relative position, then you have to also recalculate its position
(POSX) using the old position as reference to the new one. For example,
you can convert it to a 0-1 interval and then scale to the new limits:

 old_posx_relative = (old_posx - old_xmin)/(old_xmax - old_xmin)
 posx = (xmax - xmin)*old_posx_relative + xmin

B<IupList,> B<IupTree>, and B<IupText/IupMultiline> scrollbars are
automatically managed and do NOT have the POS*, *MIN, *MAX and D*
attributes.

=head2 Affects

L<IupList|../elem/iuplist.html>,
L<IupMultiline|../elem/iupmultiline.html>,
L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>

=head2 See Also

L<POSX|iup_posx.html>, L<XMIN|iup_xmin.html>, L<XMAX|iup_xmax.html>,
L<DX|iup_dx.html>, L<POSY|iup_posy.html>, L<YMIN|iup_ymin.html>,
L<YMAX|iup_ymax.html>, L<DY|iup_dy.html>

=cut