=head1 Global Attributes

Global attributes are not associated with any particular element. They
represent and affect the global behavior of the toolkit.

To access global attributes use the
L<IupGetGlobal|../func/iupgetglobal.html>,
L<IupStoreGlobal|../func/iupstoreglobal.html> and
L<IupSetGlobal|../func/iupsetglobal.html> functions. In Lua global
attributes can only be accessed trough those functions. In C, the
functions L<IupGetAttribute|../func/iupgetattribute.html>,
L<IupStoreAttribute|../func/iupstoreattribute.html>,
L<IupSetAttribute|../func/iupsetattribute.html> and others can also be
used if you set the element handle to NULL.

----

=head2 X<General>General

=head2 B<X<LANGUAGE>LANGUAGE>

The language used by some pre-defined dialogs.

Can have the values ENGLISH and PORTUGUESE. Default: ENGLISH. Can also
be set by B<IupSetLanguage>.

=head2 B<X<version>VERSION> (read-only)

Returns the name of IUP's version.

The value follows the "major.minor.micro" format, major referring to
broader changes, minor referring to smaller changes, and micro
referring to corrections only. Ex.: "1.7.2".

=head2 X<copyright>B<COPYRIGHT> (read-only)

Returns the IUP's copyright.

Ex: "Copyright (C) 1994-2004 Tecgraf/PUC-Rio and PETROBRAS S/A".

=head2 LASTERROR [Windows Only] (since 3.6)

If an error is found, returns a string with the system error
description.

=head2 IUPLUA_THREADED (since 3.6)

If defined allow IUP to be used inside coroutines in Lua.

=head2 X<driver>B<DRIVER> (read-only)

Informs the current driver being used.

Two drivers are available now, one for each platform: "GTK", "Motif"
and "Win32".

=head2 System X<Control>Control

=head2 B<LOCKLOOP>

When the last visible dialog is closed the B<IupExitLoop> function is
called. To avoid that set LOCKLOOP=YES before hiding the last dialog.
Possible values: "YES" or "NO". Default: "NO".

=head2 B<X<UTF8AUTOCONVERT>UTF8AUTOCONVERT> [GTK Only]

GTK uses UTF-8 as its charset for all displayed text, so IUP will
automatically convert all strings to (SetAttribute) and from
(GetAttribute) UTF-8. Default: YES. If the default locale is already
UTF-8, but the given string is not UTF-8 then it will be assumed that
the string uses the ISO8859-1 charset.

=head2 SHOWMENUIMAGES [GTK Only] (since 3.5)

Force the display of images in menus. Default: Yes

=head2 GLOBALMENU [GTK Only] (since 3.6)

Flag indicating that GTK is using a global menu instead of a per window
menu. This was introduced in the new Ubuntu Unity desktop.

=head2 B<SINGLEINSTANCE> [Windows Only] (since 3.2)

Restricts the number of instances of the application by using a name to
identify it. The value must also be a partial match to the title of a
dialog that will receive the COPYDATA_CB callback with the command line
of the second instance. When consulted returns NULL if inside the
second instance. So usually in the application initialization after
B<IupOpen>, set SINGLEINSTANCE and then consult its value, if NULL
abort the second instance by calling B< IupClose> and returning from
I<main>.

=head2 System X<Keyboard>Mouse and Keyboard

=head2 B<X<cursorpos>CURSORPOS>

Controls and returns the cursor position in absolute coordinates
relative to the upper left corner of the screen. Accept values in the
format "XB<x>Y" (in C "%dx%d), example "200x200". In GTK and Motif also
generates mouse motion messages. (since GTK 2.8)

=head2 B<X<MOUSEBUTTON>MOUSEBUTTON >(write-only) (since 3.3)

Simulates a mouse button press, release or motion at the given
coordinates. The position is in absolute coordinates relative to the
upper left corner of the screen. Accept values in the format "XB<x>Y
button state" (in C "%dx%d %c %d"), example "200x200 1 1". B<button>
can be one of the IUP_BUTTON1,... definitions. B< state> can be
2=double click, 1=pressed, 0=released, or -1=motion. The cursor
position is always updated. In Windows button can be 'W' and
state=delta, so a wheel button scroll is simulated.

B<IMPORTANT>: not fully working. In Windows and GTK, menu items are not
activated. Although submenus open, menu items even in the menu bar are
not activated. In Windows, inside the B< IupFileDlg> dialog, clicks in
the folder navigation list are not correctly interpreted. In Motif
click and drag operations are not performed.

=head2 X<SHIFTKEY>B<SHIFTKEY> (read-only) (since 3.0)

Returns the state of the Shit keys (left and right). Possible values:
"ON" or "OFF".

=head2 X<CONTROLKEY>B<CONTROLKEY> (read-only) (since 3.0)

Returns the state of the Control keys (left and right). Possible
values: "ON" or "OFF".

=head2 X<MODKEYSTATE>B<MODKEYSTATE> (read-only) (since 3.0)

Returns the state of the keyboard modifier keys: Shift, Ctrl, Alt and
sYs(Win/Apple). In the format of 4 characters: "SCAY". When not pressed
the respective letter is replaced by a space " ".

=head2 B<KEYPRESS> (write-only) (since 3.0)

Sends a key press message to the element with the focus. The value is a
key code. See the L<Keyboard Codes|key.html> table for a list of the
possible values.

=head2 B<KEY>RELEASE (write-only) (since 3.0)

Sends a key release message to the element with the focus. The value is
a key code. See the L<Keyboard Codes|key.html> table for a list of the
possible values.

=head2 B<KEY> (write-only) (since 3.0)

Sends a key press and a key release messages to the element with the
focus. The value is a key code. See the L<Keyboard Codes|key.html>
table for a list of the possible values.

=head2 B<X<AUTOREPEAT>AUTOREPEAT> [Motif Only]

Turns on/off ("YES" or "NO") the auto-repeat of keyboard keys in the
whole system. May be used as an optimization in high performance
applications.

=head2 X<INPUTCALLBACKS>INPUTCALLBACKS (since 3.4)

Turns on/off ("YES" or "NO") the global callbacks used to intercept
global mouse and keyboard events. The callbacks must be set using the
L<IupSetFunction|../func/iupsetfunction.html> function using the
following names: GLOBALL<KEYPRESS_CB|../call/iup_keypress_cb.html>,
GLOBALL<MOTION_CB|../call/iup_motion_cb.html>,
GLOBALL<BUTTON_CB|../call/iup_button_cb.html> and
GLOBALL<WHEEL_CB|../call/iup_wheel_cb.html> (Windows Only). Their
parameters are the same as the standard callbacks, but without the
B<Ihandle>* parameter.

=head2 System X<Information>Information

=head2 B<SYSTEM> (read-only)

Informs the current operating system. On UNIX, it is equivalent to the
command "uname -s" (sysname). On Windows, it identifies if you are on
Windows 2000, Windows XP or Windows Vista. Some known names:

=over

=over

=item * "MacOS"

=item * "FreeBSD"

=item * "Linux"

=item * "SunOS"

=item * "Solaris"

=item * "IRIX"

=item * "AIX"

=item * "HP-UX"

=item * "Win2K"

=item * "WinXP"

=item * "Vista"

=item * "Win7"

=back

=back

=head2 B<SYSTEMVERSION> (read-only)

Informs the current operating system version number.

On UNIX, it is equivalent to the command "uname -r" (release). On
Windows, it identifies the system version number and service pack
version. On MacOSX is system version.

=head2 B<SYSTEMLANGUAGE> (read-only)

Returns a text with a description of the system language.

=head2 B<SYSTEM>LOCALE (read-only) (since 3.4)

Returns a text with a description of the system locale.

=head2 B<X<GTKVERSION>GTKVERSION> (read-only) [GTK Only]

Returns the run time version of the GTK toolkit. This is the version
being used at the time of the IupOpen function was called by the
application.

=head2 B<X<GTKDEVVERSION>GTKDEVVERSION> (read-only) [GTK Only]

Returns the development version of the GTK toolkit. This is the version
at the time the IUP library was compiled.

=head2 X<MOTIFVERSION>B<MOTIFVERSION> (read-only) [Motif Only]

Returns the version of the run time Motif.

=head2 B<X<MOTIFNUMBER>MOTIFNUMBER> (read-only) [Motif Only]

Returns the number of the Motif Version if full form, e.x: 2.2.3 =
"2203".

=head2 B<X<computername>COMPUTERNAME> (read-only)

Returns the hostname.

=head2 B<X<username>USERNAME> (read-only)

Returns the user logged in.

=head2 B<X<XSERVERVENDOR>XSERVERVENDOR> (read-only) [GTK and Motif
Only] (since 3.0)

X-Windows Server Vendor string.

=head2 B<X<XVENDORRELEASE>XVENDORRELEASE> (read-only) [GTK and Motif
Only] (since 3.0)

X-Windows Server Vendor release number.

=head2 X<Screen>Screen Information

=head2 B<FULLSIZE> (read-only)

Returns the full screen size in pixels.

String in the "I<width>xI<height>" format.

=head2 B<SCREENSIZE> (read-only)

Returns the screen size in pixels available for dialogs, i.e. not
including menu bars, task bars, etc. In Motif has the same value as the
FULLSIZE attribute. The main screen size does not include additional
monitors.

String in the "I<width>xI<height>" format.

=head2 B<SCREENDEPTH> (read-only)

Returns the screen depth in bits per pixel.

=head2 B<SCREENDPI> (read-only)

Returns the screen resolution in dots or pixels per inch (DPI).

=head2 X<TRUECOLORCANVAS>B<TRUECOLORCANVAS> (read-only)

Indicates if the display allows creating TrueColor (E<gt> 8bpp)
B<IupCanvas> controls, even if PseudoColor is the default, i.e. even if
SCREENDEPTHE<lt>=8 . Returns "YES" or "NO". Usefull in Motif.

=head2 B<X<VIRTUALSCREEN>VIRTUALSCREEN> (read-only) [Win32 and GTK
Only] (since 3.0)

Returns the virtual screen position and size in pixels. It is the
virtual space defined by all monitors in the system.

String in the "I<x y width height>" format.

=head2 X<MONITORSINFO>MONITORSINFO (read-only) [Win32 and GTK Only]
(since 3.0)

Returns the position and size in pixels of all monitors. Each monitor
information is terminated by a "\n" character.

String in the "I<x y width height>\nI<x y width height>\n..." format.

=head2 System X<Data>Data

=head2 X<HINSTANCE>B<HINSTANCE> (read-only) [Win32 Only]

Returns a handle (HINSTANCE) that identifies the application in the
native system.

=head2 X<DLL_HINSTANCE>B<DLL_HINSTANCE> [Win32 Only] (since 3.0)

Changes and returns a handle (HINSTANCE) that identifies the DLL where
resources are stored.

=head2 X<APPSHELL>B<APPSHELL> (read-only) [Motif Only] (since 3.0)

Returns the shell Widget created by XtOpenApplication.

=head2 X<XDISPLAY>B<XDISPLAY> (read-only) [GTK and Motif Only] (since
3.0)

Returns the X-Windows Display.

=head2 X<XSCREEN>B<XSCREEN> (read-only) [GTK and Motif Only] (since
3.0)

Returns the X-Windows Screen.

=head2 X<Default>Default Attributes

=head2 B<X<DLGBGCOLOR>DLGBGCOLOR>

The default background color for all elements that have the background
similar of the dialog.

=head2 B<X<DLGFGCOLOR>DLGFGCOLOR> (since 3.0)

The default foreground color for all elements that have text over the
background of the dialog or similar. Usually is "0 0 0".

=head2 B<X<MENUBGCOLOR>MENUBGCOLOR> (since 3.0)

The default menu background color. Usually is "255 255 255".

=head2 B<X<MENUFGCOLOR>MENUFGCOLOR> (since 3.0)

The default menu foreground color. Usually is "0 0 0".

=head2 B<X<TXTBGCOLOR>TXTBGCOLOR> (since 3.0)

The default background color for editable text, also used by lists and
tree. Usually is "255 255 255".

=head2 B<X<TXTFGCOLOR>TXTFGCOLOR> (since 3.0)

The default foreground color for editable text, also used by lists and
tree. Usually is "0 0 0".

=head2 B<X<DEFAULTFONT>DEFAULTFONT>

The default font used by all elements, except for menus.

=head2 B<X<DEFAULTFONTSIZE>DEFAULTFONTSIZE> (since 3.0)

Auxiliar attribute to retrieve and set the default font size used by
all elements. It retrieves the size from DEFAULTFONT. When changed will
actually change the DEFAULTFONT.

=cut