=head1 FONT (up to 2.x)

Character font of the text shown in the element. See L<
FONT|iup_font.html> definition since IUP 3.0.

=head2 Value

Pre-defined font name (see L<Font Names|#Font_Names>) or a string in
the native format.

In B<Windows>, the native format is as a string with the following
format:

=over

"B<name:attributes:size>"

=over

B<name>: The name the user will see (Times New Roman, MS Sans Serif,
etc.).

B<attributes>: Can be empty, or a list separated by commas with the
following names: BOLD ITALIC UNDERLINE STRIKEOUT

B<size>: Size in pixels

=back

Examples:

=over

"Times New Roman::10"

"Ms Sans Serif:ITALIC:20"

"Courier New:BOLD,STRIKEOUT:15"

=back

Default: "Tahoma" for Windows 2000 and Windows XP, "MS Sans Serif" for
others. Size default is 8, or 10 if the resolution is greatter than 100
DPI.

=back

In B<Motif>, the native format uses the X-Windows font string format.
You can use program B<xfontsel> to select a font and obtain the string.
For example:

=over

 "-*-times-medium-r*-*-10-*"
 "-*-sans serif-*-o-*-*-19-*"
 "-*-courier-*-r-*-*-14-*"

Default: "-misc-fixed-bold-r-normal-*-13-*" if not defined in a user
resource file.

=back

=head2 Affects

All elements with an associated text.

=head2 Note

B<Attention>: when consulting this attribute, the user will always be
returned the name of the driver font being used, not the name of the
IUP font. To get the name of the IUP font, the user must use the L<
IupUnMapFont|../func/iupunmapfont.html> function.

=head2 B<X<Font_Names>Font Names>

Notice that size here is in B<points> in Windows or GTK, and in
B<pixels> in Motif.

"HELVETICA_NORMAL_8"

"COURIER_NORMAL_8"

"TIMES_NORMAL_8"

"HELVETICA_ITALIC_8"

"COURIER_ITALIC_8"

"TIMES_ITALIC_8"

"HELVETICA_BOLD_8"

"COURIER_BOLD_8"

"TIMES_BOLD_8"

"HELVETICA_NORMAL_10"

"COURIER_NORMAL_10"

"TIMES_NORMAL_10"

"HELVETICA_ITALIC_10"

"COURIER_ITALIC_10"

"TIMES_ITALIC_10"

"HELVETICA_BOLD_10"

"COURIER_BOLD_10"

"TIMES_BOLD_10"

"HELVETICA_NORMAL_12"

"COURIER_NORMAL_12"

"TIMES_NORMAL_12"

"HELVETICA_ITALIC_12"

"COURIER_ITALIC_12"

"TIMES_ITALIC_12"

"HELVETICA_BOLD_12"

"COURIER_BOLD_12"

"TIMES_BOLD_12"

"HELVETICA_NORMAL_14"

"COURIER_NORMAL_14"

"TIMES_NORMAL_14"

"HELVETICA_ITALIC_14"

"COURIER_ITALIC_14"

"TIMES_ITALIC_14"

"HELVETICA_BOLD_14"

"COURIER_BOLD_14"

"TIMES_BOLD_14"

=head2 See Also

L<IupMapFont|../func/iupmapfont.html>,
L<IupUnMapFont|../func/iupunmapfont.html>.

=cut