=head1 RASTERSIZE (non inheritable)

Specifies the element B<User> size, and returns the B<Current> size, in
pixels.

See the L<Layout Guide|../layout_guide.html> for more details on sizes.

=head2 Value

"I<width>xI<height>", where I<width> and I<height> are integer values
corresponding to the horizontal and vertical size, respectively, in
pixels.

You can also set only one of the parameters by removing the other one
and maintaining the separator "x", but this is equivalent of setting
the other value to 0. For example: "x40" (height only = "0x40") or
"40x" (width only = "40x0").

When this attribute is consulted the B<Current> size of the control is
returned.

=head2 Affects

All, except menus.

=head2 Notes

When this attribute is set, it resets the L<SIZE|iup_size.html>
attribute. So changes to the L<FONT|iup_font.html> attribute will not
affect the B<User> size of the element.

----

A B<User> size of "0x0" can be set, it can also be set using NULL.

If you wish to use the B<User> size only as an initial size, change
this attribute to NULL after the control is mapped, the returned size
in B<IupGetAttribute> will still be the B<Current> size.

The element is NOT immediately repositioned. Call B<IupRefresh> to
update the dialog layout.

B<IupMap> also updates the dialog layout even if it is already mapped,
so calling it or calling B<IupShow>, B<IupShowXY> or B<IupPopup> (they
all call B<IupMap>) will also update the dialog layout.

See the L<Layout Guide|../layout_guide.html> for mode details on sizes.

=head2 See Also

L<SIZE|iup_size.html>, L<FONT|iup_font.html>

=cut