=head1 B<Keyboard Codes>

The table below shows the IUP codification of every key in the
keyboard. Each key is represented by an integer value, defined in the
"iupkey.h" file header, which should be included in the application to
use the key definitions. These keys are used in K_ANY and KEYPRESS_CB
callbacks to inform the key that was pressed in the keyboard.

IUP uses the US default codification this means that if you installed a
keyboard specific for your country the key codes will be different from
the real keys for a small group of keys. Except for the Brazilian ABNT
keyboard which works in Windows and Linux. This does not affect the
B<IupText> and B<IupMultiline> text input.

Notice that somes key combinations are not available because they are
restricted by the system.

The B<iup_isprint(key)> macro informs if a key can be directly used as
a printable character. The B<iup_isXkey(key)> macro informs if a given
key is an extended code. The B<iup_isShiftXkey(key)> macro informs if a
given key is an extended code using the Shift modifier, the
B<iup_isCtrlXkey(key)> macro for the Ctrl modifier, the
B<iup_isAltXkey(key)> macro for the Alt modifier, and the
B<iup_isSysXkey(key)> macro for the Sys modifier. These macros are also
available in Lua as a function with the same name (iup.isprint(key),
iup.isXkey(key), and so on) and returning a boolean.

In the table below there are the most common definitions. Change the
definition to K_s*, K_c*, K_m* and K_y* when the respective modifier is
pressed (Shift, Control, Alt and Sys). Sys in Windows is the Windows
key and in Mac is the Apple key. Check the "iupkey.h" file header for
all the definitions. To detect the combination of two or more modifiers
use global attribute "MODKEYSTATE".

Note: GTK in Windows does not generates the Win modifier key, the
K_Print and the K_Pause keys (up to GTK version 2.8.18).

Key

Code /

Callback

Space

K_SP

!

K_exclam

"

K_quotedbl

#

K_numbersign

$

K_dollar

%

K_percent

&

K_ampersand

'

K_apostrophe

(

K_parentleft

)

K_parentright

*

K_asterisk

+

K_plus

,

K_comma

-

K_minus

.

K_period

/

K_slash

0

K_0

1

K_1

2

K_2

3

K_3

4

K_4

5

K_5

6

K_6

7

K_7

8

K_8

9

K_9

:

K_colon

;

K_semicolon

E<lt>

K_less

E<61>

K_equal

E<gt>

K_greater

?

K_question

@

K_at

A

K_A

B

K_B

C

K_C

D

K_D

E

K_E

F

K_F

G

K_G

H

K_H

I

K_I

J

K_J

K

K_K

L

K_L

M

K_M

N

K_N

O

K_O

P

K_P

Q

K_Q

R

K_R

S

K_S

T

K_T

U

K_U

V

K_V

W

K_W

X

K_X

Y

K_Y

Z

K_Z

[

K_bracketleft

\

K_backslash

]

K_bracketright

^

K_circum

_

K_underscore

`

K_grave

a

K_a

b

K_b

c

K_c

d

K_d

e

K_e

f

K_f

g

K_g

h

K_h

i

K_i

j

K_j

k

K_k

l

K_l

m

K_m

n

K_n

o

K_o

p

K_p

q

K_q

r

K_r

s

K_s

t

K_t

u

K_u

v

K_v

w

K_w

x

K_x

y

K_y

z

K_z

{

K_braceleft

|

K_bar

}

K_braceright

~

K_tilde

Esc

K_ESC

Enter

K_CR

BackSpace

K_BS

Insert

K_INS

Del

K_DEL

Tab

K_TAB

Home

K_HOME

Up Arrow

K_UP

PgUp

K_PGUP

Left Arrow

K_LEFT

Middle

K_MIDDLE

Right Arrow

K_RIGHT

End

K_END

Down Arrow

K_DOWN

PgDn

K_PGDN

Pause

K_PAUSE

Print Screen

K_Print

Context Menu

K_Menu

K_acute

K_ccedilla

F1

K_F1

F2

K_F2

F3

K_F3

F4

K_F4

F5

K_F5

F6

K_F6

F7

K_F7

F8

K_F8

F9

K_F9

F10

K_F10

F11

K_F11

F12

K_F12

=cut