=head1 A Basic Guide to using IupLua

by Steve Donovan

IupLua is a cross-platform kit for creating GUI applications in Lua.
There are particularly powerful facilities for getting user input that
don't require complicated coding, so it is particularly good for
utility scripts.

I<Attributes> are an important concept in IUP. You set and get them
just like table fields, but they are different from fields in several
crucial ways. First, case is not significant, C<SIZE> is just as good
as C< size> (but try to be consistent!). Second, writing to a
non-existent attribute will I<not> give you an error, so proof-read
carefully. Third, writing to an attribute often causes some action; e.g
the C<visible> attribute of controls can be used to hide them. It is
best to think of them as a special kind of function call.

Functions which create IupLua objects (i.e. I<constructors>) take
tables as arguments. Lua allows you to drop the usual parentheses in
such a case, but remember that something like C<iup.fill{}> is not the
same as C<iup.fill()>; it is actually short for C<iup.fill({})>. A Lua
table can contain an array-like part (just items separated by commas)
and a map-like part (attribute-value pairs); the convention is to put
the array part first, and separate the map part from it with a
semicolon. (See Attributes/Guide/IupLua in the Manual for a good
discussion.)

All the examples presented here and some utilities can be found at the
"L<misc|../../examples/Lua/misc/>" folder in the IupLua
L<examples|../../examples/Lua/>.

=head2 X<Simple_Output>Simple Output

Even simple scripts need to give the user some feedback. Otherwise
people get anxious and start worrying if their files really have been
backed up, for example. This is easy in IUPLua, and takes exactly one
line. Note that all IUP scripts must at least have a C<require
'iuplua'> statement at the begining:

 require( "iuplua" )
 
 iup.Message('YourApp','Finished Successfully!')

Of course, many operations require confirmation from the user. C<
iup.Alarm> is designed for this:

 require( "iuplua" )
 
 b = iup.Alarm("IupAlarm Example", "File not saved! Save it now?" ,"Yes" ,"No" ,"Cancel")
 
 -- Shows a message for each selected button
 if b == 1 then
   iup.Message("Save file", "File saved sucessfully - leaving program")
 elseif b == 2 then
   iup.Message("Save file", "File not saved - leaving program anyway")
 elseif b == 3 then
   iup.Message("Save file", "Operation canceled")
 end

Like C<iup.Message>, the first parameter appears in the title bar of
the dialog box, the second parameter appears above the buttons, but C<
iup.Alarm> allows you to specify a number of buttons. The return code
will then tell you which button has been pressed, starting at 1 (which
is always the Lua way.)

=head2 X<Simple_Input>Simple Input

=head2 Asking for a Filename

The most common thing an interactive script will require from a user is
a file, or set of files. For simple cases, C<iup.GetFile> will do the
job:

 require( "iuplua" )
 
 f, err = iup.GetFile("*.txt")
 if err == 1 then
   iup.Message("New file", f)
 elseif err == 0 then
   iup.Message("File already exists", f)
 elseif err == -1 then
   iup.Message("IupFileDlg", "Operation canceled")
 end

This will present you with the standard Windows File Open dialog box,
and allow you to either choose a filename, or cancel the operation.
Notice that this function returns two values, the filename and a code.
The code will tell you whether the file does not exist yet (if for
instance you typed a new filename into the file dialog box.)

=head2 Asking for Multiline Text

The simplest way of getting general text is to use C<iup.GetText>:

 require 'iuplua'
 
 res = iup.GetText("Give me your name","")
 
 if res ~= "" then
     iup.Message("Thanks!",res)
 end

Using this dialog, you can enter as many lines as you like, and press
OK.

=head2 Asking for a Single String, or Number

A better option for asking for a single string is the very versatile C<
iup.GetParam>:

 require( "iuplua" )
 require( "iupluacontrols" )
 
 res, name = iup.GetParam("Title", nil,
     "Give your name: %s\n","")
 
 iup.Message("Hello!",name)

prompt

This has two advantages over plain C<GetText>; you can give a prompt
line, and you can press Enter after entering text.

The C<%s> code requires some explanation. Although you might at first
think it is a C-style formating code, as you would use in C<
string.format>, it actually describes how the value is going to edited;
C< %s> here merely means that a regular text box is used; if you had
used C< %m>, then a multiline edit box (like that used by
C<iup.GetText>) would be used.

If there is a limited set of choices, then the C<%l> format is useful:

 res, prof = iup.GetParam("Title", nil,
     "Give your profession: %l|Teacher|Explorer|Engineer|\n",0)

Note the C<|item1|item2|...|> list after the C<%l> format; these are
the choices presented to the user. The initial value you give it, and
the value you receive from it, are going to be an index into this list
of choices. Somewhat confusingly, they start at 0 (which is not the Lua
way!) So in this case, C<0> means that 'Teacher' is to be selected, and
if I then selected 'Engineer', the resulting value of C<prof> would be
2.

The C<%i> code allows you to enter an integer value, with up/down
arrows for incrementing/decrementing the value.

 require( "iuplua" )
 require( "iupluacontrols" )
 
 res, age = iup.GetParam("Title", nil,
     "Give your age: %i\n",0)
 
 if res ~= 0 then    -- the user cooperated!
     iup.Message("Really?",age)
 end

=head2 Dialogs

=head2 Constructing General Layouts

C<GetParam> is a very versatile facility for asking for data, but it is
not very interactive. In general, you want to present something back to
the user that is more complicated than a simple message. Up to now we
have used the predefined dialogs available to IupLua; it is now time to
go beyond that and examine custom dialogs. The structure of a simple
IupLua program is straightforward:

 require 'iuplua'
 
 text = iup.multiline{expand = "YES"}
 
 dlg = iup.dialog{text; title="Simple Dialog",size="QUARTERxQUARTER"}
 
 dlg:show()
 
 iup.MainLoop()

A multiline edit I<control> is created, and put inside a window frame
with a given size, which is then made visible with the C<show> method.
We then enter the main loop of the application with C<MainLoop>, which
will only finish when the window is closed.

Controls are also windows, but without the frame and decorations of a
I< top-level> window; they are always meant to be inside some window
frame or other I<container>. We set the C<expand> attribute of C<
multiline> to force it to use up all the available space in the frame,
so that it takes its size from its container. The dialog's C<size>
attribute is a string of the form "XSIZExYSIZE", where sizes can be
expressed as fractions of the desktop window size, in this case a
quarter of the width and height. (You can of course also use numerical
sizes like "100x301" but these will not always scale well on displays
with different resolutions. See Attributes/Common/SIZE in the manual
for these units.)

text

It's good to pause a moment to look at the resulting application in
action; it is fully responsive and you can enter text, paste, etc. into
the edit control. Common keyboard shortcuts like C<Ctrl+V> and
C<Ctrl+C> work as expected. All this functionality comes with the
windowing system you are currently using. On my system, Task Manager
shows that this program uses 3.8 Meg of memory, and an instance of
Notepad uses 3.3 Meg, which represents all the common code necessary to
support a simple GUI application; you are not actually paying much for
using IupLua at all. The equivalent C program using the Windows API
would be about 150 lines, so the gain in I<programmer efficiency> is
tremendous!

Of course, there is not much interaction possible with such a simple
program. To make a program respond to the user we define I<callbacks>
which the system calls when some event takes place. For example, we can
put a button control in the dialog, and define its C<action> callback:

 require 'iuplua'
 
 btn = iup.button{title = "Click me!"}
 
 function btn:action ()
     iup.Message("Note","I have been clicked!")
     return iup.DEFAULT
 end
 
 dlg = iup.dialog{btn; title="Simple Dialog",size="QUARTERxQUARTER"}
 
 dlg:show()
 
 iup.MainLoop()

This is perfectly responsive, although not very useful! The button
sizes itself to its natural size since C<expand> is not set (try
setting C< expand> to see the button fill the whole window frame.)
Callbacks usually return the special value C<iup.DEFAULT>, although in
IupLua this is not really necessary.

C<dialog> takes only one control, so IupLua defines containers in which
you can pack as many controls as you like. Here C<vbox> is used to pack
two buttons into the dialog vertically (To save space I'm leaving out
the 'dlg:show...' common code at the bottom)

 btn1 = iup.button{title = "Click me!"}
 btn2 = iup.button{title = "and me!"}
 
 function btn1:action ()
     iup.Message("Note","I have been clicked!")
 end
 
 function btn2:action ()
     iup.Message("Note","Me too!")
 end
 
 box = iup.vbox {btn1,btn2}
 
 dlg = iup.dialog{box; title="Simple Dialog",size="QUARTERxQUARTER"}

This does the job, although the buttons are sized differently according
to their contents; this program would not win any design contests!
Still, you now have two commands in your application. You can actually
get a more pleasing result by using a horizontal packing box (C<hbox>)
and specifying a non-zero gap between the buttons:

 box = iup.hbox {btn1,btn2; gap=4}

You can nest boxes as much as you like, which is the way to construct
more complicated layouts. Here are our horizontal buttons packed
vertically with a multiline edit control:

bbox = iup.hbox {btn1,btn2; gap=4} text = iup.multiline{expand = "YES"}
vbox = iup.vbox{bbox,text}

dlg = iup.dialog{vbox; title="Simple Dialog",size="QUARTERxQUARTER"}

We have effectively implemented a crude but functional toolbar:

buttons

A labeled frame can be put around a control using C<iup.frame>:

 edit1 = iup.multiline{expand="YES",value="Number 1"}
 edit2 = iup.multiline{expand="YES",value="Number 2?"}
 
 box = iup.hbox {iup.frame{edit1;Title="First"},iup.frame{edit2;Title="Second"}}

A useful way to present various views to a user is to put them in tabs.
This places each control in a separate page, accessible through the
tabbar at the top. Notice in this example that the titles of the tab
pages are actually set as attributes of the I<pages> through
C<tabtitle>. This is not one of the standard IUP controls (see
Controls/Additional in the manual) so we also need to bring in the
C<iupluacontrols> library.

 require( "iupluacontrols" )
 
 edit1 = iup.multiline{expand="YES",value="Number 1",tabtitle="First"}
 edit2 = iup.multiline{expand="YES",value="Number 2?",tabtitle="Second"}
 
 tabs = iup.tabs{edit1,edit2,expand='YES'}

=head2 X<Timers>Timers and Idle Processing

Sometimes a program needs to wake up and perform some operation, such
as a scheduled backup or an autosave operation. IupLua provides
I<timers> for this purpose. (Note at this point that there is no reason
why you can't have C< print> in a IupLua application; sometimes there
is no better way to track what's going on. But on Windows you do have
to run the program using the regular lua.exe, not wlua.exe.)

 -- timer1.lua
 
 require "iuplua"
 
 timer = iup.timer{time=500}
 
 btn = iup.button {title = "Stop",expand="YES"}
 
 function btn:action ()
     if btn.title == "Stop" then
         timer.run = "NO"
         btn.title = "Start"
     else
         timer.run = "YES"
         btn.title = "Stop"
     end
 end
 
 function timer:action_cb()
     print 'timer!'
 end
 
 timer.run = "YES"
 
 dlg = iup.dialog{btn; title="Timer!"}
 dlg:show()
 iup.MainLoop()

After a timer has been started by setting its C<run> attribute to
"YES", it will continue to call C<action_cb> using the given time in
milliseconds. Notice that it is important to set the timer going only
after the callback has been defined. It is perfectly permissable to
switch a timer off in the callback, which is how you can perform a
single action after waiting for some time.

It is a well-known fact that computers spend most of the time doing
very little, waiting for incredibly slow humans to type something new.
However, when a computer is actually doing intense processing, users
become impatient if not told about progress. If you do your lengthy
processing directly, then the windows of the application become
unresponsive. The proper way to organize such work is to do it when the
system is I<idle>.

IupLua provides a gauge control which is intended to show progress;
this little program shows that even when the computer is almost
completely preoccupied doing work, it is still keeping the user
informed and in fact the window remains useable, although a little slow
to respond.

 -- idle1.wlua
 require "iuplua"
 require "iupluacontrols"
 
 function do_something ()
     for i=1,6e7 do end
 end
 
 gauge = iup.gauge{show_text="YES"}
 
 function idle_cb()
     local value = gauge.value
     do_something()
     value = value + 0.1
     if value > 1.0 then
         value = 0.0
     end
     gauge.value = value
     return iup.DEFAULT
 end
 
 dlg = iup.dialog{gauge; title = "IupGauge"}
 
 iup.SetIdle(idle_cb)
 
 dlg:showxy(iup.CENTER, iup.CENTER)
 
 iup.MainLoop()

=head2 Lists

It is easy to display a list of values in IupLua. The values can be
directly specified in the C<iup.list> constructor, like so:

 -- list1.wlua
 require "iuplua"
 
 list = iup.list {"Horses","Dogs","Pigs","Humans"; expand="YES"}
 
 dlg = iup.dialog{list; title="Lists"}
 dlg:show()
 iup.MainLoop()

(Remember that the single argument to these constructors is just a Lua
table, which you can construct in any way you choose, say by reading
the values from a file.)

Tracking selection changes is straightforward:

 function list:action(t,i,v)
     print(t,i,v)
 end

Now, as I move the selection through the list, from the start to the
finish, the output is:

 Horses  1       1
 Horses  1       0
 Dogs    2       1
 Dogs    2       0
 Pigs    3       1
 Pigs    3       0
 Humans  4       1

So C<v> is 1 if we are selecting an item, 0 if we are deselecting it;
C<i> is the one-based index in the list, and C<t> is the actual string
value. If you want to associate some other data with each value, then
all you need to do is keep a table of that data and look it up using
the index C<i>.

To register a double-click is a little more involved. There is (as far
as I can tell) no way to detect whether a double-click has happened in
the C< action> callback. So we track the selection manually; if two
selection events for a given item happen consecutively, then that is
understood to be a double-click. It ain't pretty, but it works (except
perhaps for the valid case of a person wanting to double-click the same
item repeatedly):

 local lastidx,doubleclick
 
 function on_double_click (t,i)
     print(t,i)
 end
 
 function list:action(t, i, v)
     if v ~= 0 then
         if lastidx == i and doubleclick ~= i then
             on_double_click(t,i)
             doubleclick = i
         end
         lastidx = i
     end
 end

Once a list has been created, how does one change the contents? The
answer is that the list object I<behaves> like an array. For example,
to fill a list with all the entries in a directory, I can use this
function:

 function fill (path)
     local i = 1
     for f in lfs.dir(path) do
         list[i] = f
         i = i + 1
     end
     list[i] = nil
 end

Note that this does not mean that a list object I<is> a table. In
particular, you have to explicitly set the end of the list of elements
by setting a nil value just after the end.

=head2 Trees

The most flexible way to present a hierarchy of information is a tree.
A tree has a single I<root>, and several I<branches>. Each of these I<
branches> may have I<leaves>, and other branches. All of these are
called I<nodes>. Thinking of a family tree, a node may have I<child>
nodes, which all share the same I<parent> node.

A good example of this in everyday computer experience is a filesystem,
where the leaves are files and the branches are directories. Lua tables
naturally express these kind of I<nested> structures easily, and in
fact it is easy to present a Lua table as a tree, where array items are
leaves, and the branches are named with the special field
C<branchname>:

 require 'iuplua'
 require 'iupluacontrols'
 
 tree = iup.tree{}
 tree.addexpanded = "NO"
 
 list = {
   {
     "Horse",
     "Whale";
     branchname = "Mammals"
   },
   {
     "Shrimp",
     "Lobster";
     branchname = "Crustaceans"
   },
   {
     branchname = "Birds"
   },
   branchname = "Animals"
 }
 
 iup.TreeAddNodes(tree, list)
 
 f = iup.dialog{tree; title = "Tree Test"}
 
 f:show()
 
 iup.MainLoop()

This example begins with the branches 'collapsed', and you will have to
explicitly expand them with a mouse click. By default, trees are
presented in their fully expanded form; try taking out the fourth line
that sets the C< addexpanded> attribute of the tree object. Note that
branches can be empty!

Tree operations are naturally more complicated than list operations,
but there is a callback which happens when a node is selected or
unselected. Add this to the example:

 function tree:selection_cb (id,iselect)
     print(id,iselect,tree.name)
 end

You will see that C<iselect> is 0 for the unselection operation, and 1
for selection; id is a tree node index. These indices are always in
order of appearance in a tree, starting at 0 for the root node. The
C<name> attribute of the tree object is the text of the currently
selected node.

A pair of useful callbacks are C<branchopenI<cb>> and C<
branchclosecb>. If you were displaying a potentially very large tree
(like your computer's filesystem) then it would be inefficient to
create the whole tree at once, especially considering that you would
normally be only interested in a small part of that tree. Trapping
C<branchopenI<cb>> allows you to add child nodes to your selected node
before it is expanded. C< executeleafcb> is called when you
double-click on a leaf, as if you were running a program in a file
explorer.

In itself, the id is not particularly useful. The id order is always
the same in the tree, so as nodes get added and removed, the id of a
particular node will change. Generally, there is going to be some
deeper data associated with a node. On a filesystem, a node represents
a full path to a file or directory, or there may be an ip address
associated with a computer name. IUP provides you with a way to
associate arbitrary data with nodes even if the id changes. But to use
this you will have to understand how to build up a tree from scratch -
C< TreeAddNodes> is very convenient, but won't help you if you have to
add nodes later. Replace the definition of C<list> and the call to C<
TreeAddNodes> with this code:

 tree.name = "Animals"
 tree.addbranch = "Birds"
 tree.addbranch = "Crustaceans"
 tree.addbranch = "Mammals"

You will get the top level branches of the tree; notice that they are
specified in reverse order, since nodes are always added to the top.
Also note the curious way in which the C<addbranch> attribute is used.
For a start, it is I<write-only>, and the effect of setting a value to
it is to add a new branch to the currently selected node. By default,
this starts out as the root (which is set using the C<name> attribute)
The id of the root is always 0; when we add "Birds", the new branch has
id 1, again when we add "Crustaceans" the new branch also has id 1 - by
which time "Birds" has moved to id 2, further down the tree.

To add leaves, a similar process:

 tree.name = "Animals"
 tree.addbranch = "Mammals"
 tree.addleaf1 = "Whale"

The C<addleaf> attribute works like C<addbranch>, and both of them can
take an extra parameter, which is the id of the node to add to. In this
case, "Whale" is a child leaf of the "Mammals" branch, which has id 1
I< at this stage>. This new leaf gets an id of 2, which is one more
than the parent. So this gives us a way to build up arbitrary trees,
knowing the id at each point. IUP provides a function C<TreeSetTableId>
which can associate a Lua table with a node id. We can choose to put a
string value inside this table, but it really can contain anything.
Here is the first example, using some helper functions to simplify
matters:

 -- testtree2.lua
 
 require 'iuplua'
 require 'iupluacontrols'
 tree = iup.tree{}
 
 function assoc (idx,value)
     iup.TreeSetTableId(tree,idx,{value})
 end
 
 function addbranch(self,label,value)
     self.addbranch = label
     assoc(1,value or label)
 end
 
 function addleaf(self,label,value)
     self.addleaf1 = label
     assoc(2,value or label)
 end
 
 tree.name = "Animals"
 addbranch(tree,"Birds")
 addbranch(tree,"Crustaceans")
 addleaf(tree,"Shrimp")
 addleaf(tree,"Lobster")
 addbranch(tree,"Mammals")
 addleaf(tree,"Horse")
 addleaf(tree,"Whale")
 
 function dump (tp,id)
     local t = iup.TreeGetTable(tree,id)
     -- our string data is always the first element of this table
     print(tp,id,t and t[1])
 end
 
 function tree:branchopen_cb(id)
     dump('open',id)
 end
 
 function tree:selection_cb (id,iselect)
     if iselect == 1 then dump('select',id) end
 end
 
 f = iup.dialog{tree; title = "Tree Test"}
 
 f:show()
 
 iup.MainLoop()

There is a corresponding function C<TreeGetTable> which accesses the
table associated with the node id. There is also a function C<
TreeGetTableId> which will return the id, given the I<unique> table
associated with it. You can use this to programmatically select a tree
node given its data by setting the C<value> attribute to the returned
id.

Now let's do something interesting with a tree control, a simple file
browser. It is straightforward to get the files and directories
contained within a directory:

 require 'lfs'
 
 local append = table.insert
 
 function get_dir (path)
     local files = {}
     local dirs = {}
     for f in lfs.dir(path) do
         if f ~= '.' and f ~= '..' then
             if lfs.attributes(path..'/'..f,'mode') == 'file' then
                 append(files,f)
             else
                 append(dirs,f)
             end
         end
     end
     return files,dirs
 end

We ignore '.' and '..' (the current and parent directory respectively)
and check the mode to see if we have file or a directory; this requires
the full path to be passed to C<attributes>. This function returns two
separate tables containing the I<names> of the files and directories.

It is useful to define two helper functions for setting and getting
data to be associated with the tree nodes:

 tree = iup.tree {}
 
 function set (id,value,attrib)
     iup.TreeSetTableId(tree,id,{value,attrib})
 end
 
 function get(id)
     return iup.TreeGetTable(tree,id)
 end

Filling a tree with the contents of a directory is straightforward. We
want the directories before the files, so we put them in last; nodes
must be added in reverse order! The id of the new nodes will always be
C<id+1> where C< id> is going to be the directory which we are filling.
The fullpath plus a field indicating whether we are a directory is
associated with each new item:

 function fill (path,id)
     local files,dirs = get_dir(path)
     id = id + 1
     local state = "STATE"..id
     for i = #files,1,-1 do -- put the files in reverse order!
         tree.addleaf = files[i]
         set(id,path..'/'..files[i])
     end
     for i = #dirs,1,-1 do -- ditto for directories!
         tree.addbranch = dirs[i]
         set(id,path..'/'..dirs[i],'dir')
         tree[state] = "COLLAPSED"
     end
 end

By default, the directory branches will be created in their expanded
form, so we use the C<STATE> attribute to force them into their
collapsed state. Normally you would say this in Lua like so C<state2 =
"COLLAPSED"> but here we build up the appropriate attribute string with
the given id and use array indexing to set the tree attribute.

Just calling C<fill('.',0)> and putting the tree into a dialog as usual
will give you a directory listing of the current directory! But it
would be cool if expanding a directory node would automatically fill
that node; it would obviously be wasteful to fill the whole tree at
startup, since your filesystem contains thousands of files. The
C<branchopenI<cb>> callback is called when a user tries to expand a
directory. We use this to fill the directory with its contents, but
only on the _first time that we expand this node:

 function tree:branchopen_cb(id)
     tree.value = id
     local t = get(id)
     if t[2] == 'dir' then
         fill(t[1],id)
         set(id,t[1],'xdir')
     end
 end

This is why directories need to be I<specially marked>, so we can tell
later whether we have actually generated the contents of that
directory!

The first statement of this function makes the node we are opening to
be the selected node of the tree. (Although we are passed the correct
id of the node, it seems to be necessary to perform this step to make
things work correctly.)

See C<directory.wlua> in the examples folder.

directory

=head2 Menus

Any application that can perform a number of operations needs a menu.
These are not difficult to create in Iuplua, although it can be a
little tedious to set up. The basic idea is this: create some I<items>,
make a menu out of these items, and set the C<menu> attribute of the
dialog. The items have an associated C<action> callback, which actually
performs the operation.

 -- simple-menu.wlua
 
 require( "iuplua" )
 
 -- Creates a text, sets its value and turns on text readonly mode
 text = iup.text {readonly = "YES", value = "Show or hide this text"}
 
 item_show = iup.item {title = "Show"}
 item_hide = iup.item {title = "Hide"}
 item_exit = iup.item {title = "Exit"}
 
 function item_show:action()
   text.visible = "YES"
   return iup.DEFAULT
 end
 
 function item_hide:action()
   text.visible = "NO"
   return iup.DEFAULT
 end
 
 function item_exit:action()
   return iup.CLOSE
 end
 
 menu = iup.menu {item_show,item_hide,item_exit}
 
 -- Creates dialog with a text, sets its title and associates a menu to it
 dlg = iup.dialog{text; title="Menu Example", menu=menu}
 
 -- Shows dialog in the center of the screen
 dlg:showxy(iup.CENTER,iup.CENTER)
 
 iup.MainLoop()

A menu may contain items and I<submenus>. This example shows a small
function which makes creating arbitrarily complicated menus easier:

 -- menu.wlua
 
 require( "iuplua" )
 
 function default ()
     iup.Message ("Warning", "Only Exit performs an operation")
     return iup.DEFAULT
 end
 
 function do_close ()
     return iup.CLOSE
 end
 
 mmenu = {
     "File",{
         "New",default,
         "Open",default,
         "Close",default,
         "-",nil,
         "Exit",do_close,
     },
     "Edit",{
         "Copy",default,
         "Paste",default,
         "-",nil,
         "Format",{
             "DOS",default,
             "UNIX",default
         }
     }
 }
 
 function create_menu(templ)
     local items = {}
     for i = 1,#templ,2 do
         local label = templ[i]
         local data = templ[i+1]
         if type(data) == 'function' then
             item = iup.item{title = label}
             item.action = data
         elseif type(data) == 'nil' then
             item = iup.separator{}
         else
             item = iup.submenu {create_menu(data); title = label}
         end
         table.insert(items,item)
     end
     return iup.menu(items)
 end
 
 -- Creates a text, sets its value and turns on text readonly mode
 text = iup.text {value = "Some text", expand = "YES"}
 
 -- Creates dialog with a text, sets its title and associates a menu to it
 dlg = iup.dialog {text; title = "Creating Menus With a Table",
       menu = create_menu(mmenu), size = "QUARTERxEIGHTH"}
 
 -- Shows dialog in the center of the screen
 dlg:showxy (iup.CENTER,iup.CENTER)
 
 iup.MainLoop()

The function C<create_menu> does all the work; we provide it with a Lua
table containing pairs of values; the first value of a pair is always a
string, and will be the label. The second value can either be a
function, in which case it represents an item to be associated with a
callback, or C<nil>, which means that it's a separator, or otherwise
must be a table, which represents a submenu. It is a nice example of
how recursion can naturally handle nested structures like menus, and
how Lua's flexible table definitions can make specifying such
structures easy. This useful function is available in the C< iupx>
utility library as C<iupx.menu>.

=head2 X<Plott>Plotting Data

Many kinds of numerical data are best seen as X-Y plots. C<iup.pplot>
is a control which can show several kinds of plots; you can have lines
between points, show them as markers, or both together. Several series
(or I<datasets>) can be shown on a single plot, and a simple legend can
be shown. The plot will automatically scale to view all datasets, but
the default minimum and maximum x and y values can be changed. It is
even possible to select points and edit them on the plot.

A simple plot is straightforward:

 -- pplot1.wlua
 require( "iuplua" )
 require( "iupluacontrols" )
 require( "iuplua_pplot51"  )
 
 plot = iup.pplot{TITLE = "A simple XY Plot",
                     MARGINBOTTOM="35",
                     MARGINLEFT="35",
                     AXS_XLABEL="X",
                     AXS_YLABEL="Y"
                     }
 
 iup.PPlotBegin(plot,0)
 iup.PPlotAdd(plot,0,0)
 iup.PPlotAdd(plot,5,5)
 iup.PPlotAdd(plot,10,7)
 iup.PPlotEnd(plot)
 
 dlg = iup.dialog{plot; title="Plot Example",size="QUARTERxQUARTER"}
 
 dlg:show()
 
 iup.MainLoop()

Creating a dataset involves calling C<PPlotBegin>, a number of calls to
C<PPlotAdd> to add data points, and finally a call to C< PPlotEnd>. You
can create multiple datasets (or series) using multiple begin/end
calls, and can of course use loops to add points:

 iup.PPlotBegin(plot,0)
 for x = -2,2,0.01 do
     iup.PPlotAdd(plot,x,math.sin(x))
 end
 iup.PPlotEnd(plot)
 
 iup.PPlotBegin(plot,0)
 for x = -2,2,0.01 do
     iup.PPlotAdd(plot,x,math.cos(x))
 end
 iup.PPlotEnd(plot)
 
 plot.DS_LINEWIDTH = 3

A limitation of the C<pplot> library is that it does not choose
appropriate sizes for the plot margins. So I've had to set the bottom
and left margins (in pixels) to properly accomodate the axes and their
titles. As with all IupLua attributes, you can choose to make them
uppercase if you like; a full list is found in the manual under
Controls/Additional/IupPPlot. Some of these attributes refer to the
plot as a whole, some to the I<current dataset>. For instance, setting
C<GRID> to "YES" will draw gridlines for both axes, but if we set
C<DS_LINEWIDTH> to 3 after the construction of the cosine dataset, then
only that line is affected.

Some attributes affect others. C<DS_MODE> is used to specify how to
draw the dataset; it can be "LINE", "BAR", (for a bar chart) "MARK"
(just for marks) or "MARKLINE" (for lines and marks). But it has to be
set before any of the other C<DS_> attributes like C<DS_MARKSIZE>, etc.
In another case, you will often find it useful to set an explicit
minimum y value by setting C<AXS_YMIN>. But it will only take effect if
C< AXIS_YAUTOMIN> has been set to "NO" to disable auto scaling.

As with menus, making a Lua-friendly wrapper around an API is not
difficult and can be very labour-saving. It would be clearer if we
could work with the plot object in a more object-oriented way:

    plot:Begin()
    for i = 1,#xvalues do
            plot:Add(xvalues[i],yvalues[i])
    end
    plot:End()

And for the common case where you have arrays of values, it would be
convenient to be able to say:

 plot:AddSeries({{0,1.5},{5,4.5},{10,7.6}},{DS_MODE="MARK"})

Here is a function which wraps the C<PPlot> API:

 function create_pplot (tbl)
     -- don't need to remember this anymore!
     require( "iuplua_pplot51"  )
 
     -- the defaults for these values are too small, at least on my system!
     if not tbl.MARGINLEFT then tbl.MARGINLEFT = 30 end
     if not tbl.MARGINBOTTOM then tbl.MARGINBOTTOM = 35 end
 
     -- if we explicitly supply ranges, then auto must be switched off for that direction.
     if tbl.AXS_YMIN then tbl.AXS_YAUTOMIN = "NO" end
     if tbl.AXS_YMAX then tbl.AXS_YAUTOMAX = "NO" end
     if tbl.AXS_XMIN then tbl.AXS_XAUTOMIN = "NO" end
     if tbl.AXS_XMAX then tbl.AXS_XAUTOMAX = "NO" end
 
     local plot = iup.pplot(tbl)
     plot.End = iup.PPlotEnd
     plot.Add = iup.PPlotAdd
     function plot.Begin ()
         return iup.PPlotBegin(plot,0)
     end
 
     function plot:AddSeries(xvalues,yvalues,options)
         plot:Begin()
         -- is xvalues a table of (x,y) pairs?
         if type(xvalues[1]) == "table" then
             -- because there's only one data table, the next must be options
             options = yvalues
             for i,v in ipairs(xvalues) do
                 plot:Add(v[1],v[2])
             end
         else
             for i = 1,#xvalues do
                 plot:Add(xvalues[i],yvalues[i])
             end
         end
         plot:End()
         -- set any series-specific plot attributes
         if options then
             -- mode must be set before any other attributes!
             if options.DS_MODE then
                 plot.DS_MODE = options.DS_MODE
                 options.DS_MODE = nil
             end
             for k,v in pairs(options) do
                 plot[k] = v
             end
         end
     end
 
     function plot:Redraw()
         plot.REDRAW='YES'
     end
     return plot
 end

This function creates a C<PPlot> object as usual, but supplies some
more sensible defaults for the margins, makes setting things like
C<AXS_XMAX> also set C<AXS_XAUTOMAX>, and adds some new methods to the
object. Of these, C<AddSeries> is the interesting one. It allows you to
specify the data in two forms; either as two arrays of x and y values,
or as a single array of x-y pairs. It also allows optionally setting
C<DS_> attributes, taking care to set the plot mode before any other
attributes. In this way, the actual details can be hidden away from the
programmer, who has then less things to worry about.

Given this function, we can write a little program which plots some
points and draws the linear least-squares fit between them:

 -- simple-pplot.wlua
 
 local xx = {0,2,5,10}
 local yy = {1,1.5,6,8}
 
 function least_squares (xx,yy)
     local xsum = 0.0
     local ysum = 0.0
     local xxsum = 0.0
     local yysum = 0.0
     local xysum = 0.0
     local n = #xx
     for i = 1,n do
         local x,y = xx[i], yy[i]
         xsum = xsum + x
         ysum = ysum + y
         xxsum = xxsum + x*x
         yysum = yysum + y*y
         xysum = xysum + x*y
     end
     local m = (xsum*ysum/n - xysum )/(xsum*xsum/n - xxsum)
     local c = (ysum - m*xsum)/n
     return m,c
 end
 
 local m,c = least_squares(xx,yy)
 
 function eval (x) return m*x + c end
 
 local plot = create_pplot {TITLE = "Simple Data",AXS_YMIN=0,GRID="YES"}
 
 -- the original data
 plot:AddSeries(xx,yy,{DS_MODE="MARK",DS_MARKSTYLE="CIRCLE"})
 
 -- the least squares fit
 local xmin,xmax = xx[1],xx[#xx]
 plot:AddSeries({xmin,xmax},{eval(xmin),eval(xmax)})

plot

C<create_plot> is so useful that I've packaged it as part of the C<
iupx> library as C<iupx.pplot>. A new pseudo-attribute has been
introduced, C<AXS_BOUNDS>, which is a table of four values C<
{xmin,ymin,xmax,ymax}>. This example shows that very different ranges
can happily exist on the same plot:

 -- pplot5.wlua
 
 require "iupx"
 
 plot = iupx.pplot {TITLE = "Simple Data", AXS_BOUNDS={0,0,100,100}}
 
 plot:AddSeries ({{0,0},{10,10},{20,30},{30,45}})
 plot:AddSeries ({{40,40},{50,55},{60,60},{70,65}})
 
 iupx.show_dialog{plot; title="Easy Plotting",size="QUARTERxQUARTER"}

=cut