=head1 NAME

IUP::Fill - [GUI element] dynamically occupies empty spaces always trying to expand itself

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Creates a Fill composition element, which dynamically occupies empty
spaces always trying to expand itself. Its parent B<must> be an
L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> or an L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>. If an EXPAND is set on at least one of the
other children of the box, then the Fill is ignored.

It does not have a native representation.

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

 $fill = IUP::Fill->new(void);
 iup.fill{} -> elem: ihandle [in Lua]
 fill() [in LED]

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements>.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

For more info about concept of attributes (setting/getting values etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::03_Attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes>. Attributes specific to this element:

=over

=item * L<EXPAND|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/EXPAND> (non inheritable)

Ignored. If
=item * B<User> size is not defined, then when inside a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> EXPAND is
HORIZONTAL, when inside a IUP::Vbox EXPAND is VERTICAL. If B<User> size
is defined then EXPAND is NO.

L<SIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/SIZE> /
L<RASTERSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/RASTERSIZE> (non inheritable)

Defines
the width, if inside a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, or the height, if it is inside a
=item * L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>. When consulted behaves as the standard SIZE/RASTERSIZE
attributes. The standard format "wxh" can also be used, but width will
be ignored if inside a L<IUP::Vbox |IUP::Vbox >and height will be ignored if inside
a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> (since iup-3.3).

B<WID> (read-only)

returns -1 if mapped.

=back

The following L<common attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/Common Attributes> are also accepted:

=over

=item * L<FONT|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/FONT>,
L<POSITION|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MAXSIZE>

also accepted.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>.

=cut