=head1 NAME

IUP::Frame - [GUI element] frame with a title around an interface element

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Creates a Frame interface element, which draws a frame with a title
around an interface element.

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

 $frame = IUP::Frame->new(Ihandle *child);
 iup.frame{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 frame(child) [in LED]

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element which will receive the
frame around. It can be NULL.

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements>.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

For more info about concept of attributes (setting/getting values etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::03_Attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes>. Attributes specific to this element:

=over

=item * L<BGCOLOR|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/BGCOLOR>

ignored, transparent in all
systems. Will use the background color of the native parent. Except if
TITLE is not defined and BGCOLOR is defined before map (can be changed
later), then the frame will have a color background.

=item * L<EXPAND|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/EXPAND> (non inheritable)

The default
value is "YES".

=item * L<FGCOLOR|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/FGCOLOR>

Text title color. Not available
in Windows when using Windows Visual Styles. Default: the global
attribute DLGFGCOLOR.

=item * B<SUNKEN> (creation only)

When not using a title, the frame line
defines a sunken area (lowered area). Valid values: YES or NOI<.>
Default: NO.

=item * L<TITLE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/TITLE> (non inheritable)

Text the user will
see at the top of the frame. If not defined during creation it can not
be added lately, to be changed it must be at least "" during creation.

=back

The following L<common attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/Common Attributes> are also accepted:

=over

=item * L<ACTIVE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/ACTIVE>, L<FONT|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/FONT>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/SCREENPOSITION>,
L<POSITION|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/POSITION>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CLIENTSIZE>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CLIENTOFFSET>,
L<MINSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MAXSIZE>, L<WID|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/WID>,
L<SIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/SIZE>,
L<RASTERSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/RASTERSIZE>,
L<ZORDER|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/ZORDER>,
L<VISIBLE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/VISIBLE>

also accepted.

=back

=head2 CALLBACKS

For more info about concept of callbacks (setting callback handlers etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::04_Callbacks|IUP::Manual::04_Callbacks>. Callbacks specific to this element:

=over

=item * L<MAP_CB|IUP::Manual::04_Callbacks/MAP_CB>,
L<UNMAP_CB|IUP::Manual::04_Callbacks/UNMAP_CB>

common callbacks are supported.

=back

=head1 NOTES

In Windows, a Frame with TITLE==NULL is not the same control as then
TITLE!=NULL. When TITLE==NULL it does not have Visual Styles and uses a
sharp rectangle border. When TITLE!=NULL it has Visual Styles and the
border is a rounded rectangle. To always use Visual Styles set the
title to "" before mapping, but be aware that a vertical space for the
title will be always reserved at the top border.

The frame can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IUP::Append|IUP::Append> or
L<IUP::Insert|IUP::Insert>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

  frame1 = IUP::Frame
          (
            IUP::Vbox
            (
              IUP::Label("Label1"),
              IUP::Label("Label2"), 
              IUP::Label("Label3"),
              NULL
            )
          );
 
  frame2 = IUP::Frame
          (
            IUP::Vbox
            (
              IUP::Label("Label4"), 
              IUP::Label("Label5"),
              IUP::Label("Label6"),
              NULL
            )
          );
 
  IUP::SetAttribute(frame1, "TITLE", "Title Text");
  IUP::SetAttribute(frame2, "SUNKEN", "YES");

Windows 2000

[IMAGE]

Windows XP

[IMAGE]

Motif

[IMAGE]

GTK

[IMAGE]

=cut