=for comment based on iup-3.5-XXX-UNFINISHED

=head1 NAME

IUP::Image - [GUI element] image to be shown on a label, button, toggle, or as a cursor

=head1 DESCRIPTION, IUP::ImageRGB, IUP::ImageRGBA

Creates an image to be shown on a label, button, toggle, or as a
cursor.

(L<IUP::ImageRGB|IUP::ImageRGB> and L<IUP::ImageRGBA,|IUP::ImageRGBA,> since iup-3.0)

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

 $image = IUP::Image->new(int width, int height, const unsigned char *pixels);
 $imagergb = IUP::ImageRGB->new(int width, int height, const unsigned char *pixels);
 $imagergba = IUP::ImageRGBA->new(int width, int height, const unsigned char *pixels);
 
 iup.image{line0: table, line1: table, ...; colors = colors: table} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 iup.image{width = width: number, height = height: number, pixels = pixels: table, colors = colors: table} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 iup.imagergb {width = width: number, height = height: number, pixels = pixels: table} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 iup.imagergba{width = width: number, height = height: number, pixels = pixels: table} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 
 image(width, height, pixel0, pixel1, ...) [in LED]
 imagergb(width, height, pixel0, pixel1, ...) [in LED]
 imagergba(width, height, pixel0, pixel1, ...) [in LED]

B<width>: Image width in pixels.

B<height>: Image height in pixels.

B<pixels>: Vector containing the value of each pixel. B<IUP::Image> uses
1 value per pixel, L<IUP::ImageRGB|IUP::ImageRGB> uses 3 values and B<IUP::ImageRGBA>
uses 4 values per pixel. Each value is always 8 bit. Origin is at the
top-left corner and data is oriented top to bottom, and left to right.
The pixels array is duplicated internally so you can discard it after
the call.

B<pixel0>, B<pixel1>, B<pixel2>, ...: Value of the pixels. But for
L<IUP::ImageRGB|IUP::ImageRGB> and L<IUP::ImageRGBA|IUP::ImageRGBA> in fact will be one value for each
color channel (pixel_r_0, pixel_g_0, pixel_b_0, pixel_r_1, pixel_g_1,
pixel_b_1, pixel_r_2, pixel_g_2, pixel_b_2, ...).

B<line0>, B<line1>: unnamed tables, one for each line containing pixels
values. See Notes below.

B<colors>: table named colors containing the colors indices. See Notes
below.

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements>.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

For more info about concept of attributes (setting/getting values etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::03_Attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes>. Attributes specific to this element:

=over

=item * B<"0"> Color in index 0.

B<"1"> Color in index 1.

B<"2"> Color in index 2.

B<...>

B<"i"> Color in index i.

=over

The indices can range from 0 to 255. The total number of colors is
limited to 256 colors. Notice that in Lua the first index in the array
is "1", the index "0" is ignored in IUP::Lua. Be careful when setting
colors, since they are attributes they follow the same storage rules
for standard attributes.

The values are integer numbers from 0 to 255, one for each color in the
RGB triple (For ex

"64 190 255"). If the value of a given index is
"BGCOLOR", the color used will be the background color of the element
on which the image will be inserted. The "BGCOLOR" value must be
defined within an index less than 16.

Used only for images created with L<IUP::Image|IUP::Image>.

=back

=item * B<BGCOLOR>

The color used for transparency. If not defined uses the
BGCOLOR of the control that contains the image.

=item * B<BPP> (read-only)

returns the number of bits per pixel in the image.
Images created with L<IUP::Image|IUP::Image> returns 8, with L<IUP::ImageRGB|IUP::ImageRGB> returns
24 and with L<IUP::ImageRGBA|IUP::ImageRGBA> returns 32. 

=item * B<CHANNELS> (read-only)

returns the number of channels in the image.
Images created with L<IUP::Image|IUP::Image> returns 1, with L<IUP::ImageRGB|IUP::ImageRGB> returns
3 and with L<IUP::ImageRGBA|IUP::ImageRGBA> returns 4. 

=item * B<HEIGHT> (read-only)

Image height in pixels.

=item * B<HOTSPOT>

Hotspot is the position inside a cursor image indicating
the mouse-click spot. Its value is given by the x and y coordinates
inside a cursor image. Its value has the format "x:y", where x and y
are integers defining the coordinates in pixels. Default: "0:0".

=item * B<RASTERSIZE> (read-only)

returns the image size in pixels. (since
3.0)

=item * B<WID> (read-only)

returns the internal pixels data pointer. (since
3.0)

=item * B<WIDTH> (read-only)

Image width in pixels.

=back

=head1 NOTES

Application icons are usually 32x32. Toolbar bitmaps are 24x24 or
smaller. Menu bitmaps and small icons are 16x16 or smaller.

Images created with the L<IUP::Image|IUP::Image>* constructors can be reused in
different elements.

The images should be destroyed when they are no longer necessary, by
means of the L<Destroy|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"Destroy()"> function. To destroy an image, it cannot be
in use, i.e the controls where it is used should be destroyed first.
Images that were associated with controls by names are automatically
destroyed in IUP::Close.

Please observe the rules for creating cursor images: L<CURSOR|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CURSOR>.

=head2 Usage

Images are used in elements such as buttons and labels by attributes
that points to names registered with L<SetName|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"SetName()">. You can also use
XXX-FIX_ME to shortcut the set of an image as an
attribute. For example:

 Ihandle* image = IUP::Image(width, height, pixels);
 
 IUP::SetHandle("MY_IMAGE_NAME", image);
 IUP::SetAttribute(label, "IMAGE", "MY_IMAGE_NAME");
 or
 IUP::SetAttributeHandle(label, "IMAGE", image); // an automatic name will be created internally

In Windows, names of resources in RC files linked with the application
are also accepted. In GTK, names of GTK Stock Items are also accepted.
In Motif, names of bitmaps installed on the system are also accepted.
For example:

 IUP::SetAttribute(label, "IMAGE", "TECGRAF_BITMAP");  // available in the "etc/iup.rc" file
 or
 IUP::SetAttribute(label, "IMAGE", "gtk-open");  // available in the GTK Stock Items

In all drivers, a path to a file name can also be used as the attribute
value . But the available file formats supported are system
dependent. The Windows driver supports BMP, ICO and CUR. The GTK driver
supports the formats supported by the GDK-PixBuf library, such as BMP,
GIF, JPEG, PCX, PNG, TIFF and many others. The Motif driver supports
the X-Windows bitmap. For example:

 IUP::SetAttribute(label, "IMAGE", "../etc/tecgraf.bmp");

A more format independent approach can be reached using the L<IUP-IM
Functions|xxx.html>.

=head2 Colors

In Motif, the alpha channel in RGBA images is composed with the control
BGCOLOR by IUP prior to setting the image at the control. In Windows
and in GTK, the alpha channel is composed internally by the system. But
in Windows for some controls the alpha must be composed prior also, it
includes: B<IUP::Item> and L<IUP::Submenu|IUP::Submenu> always; and B<IUP::Toggle> when
NOT using Visual Styles. This implies that if the control background is
not uniform then probably there will be a visible difference where it
should be transparent.

For L<IUP::Image|IUP::Image>, if a color is not set, then it is used a default color
for the 16 first colors. The default color table is the same for
Windows, GTK and Motif:

  0 =   0,  0,  0 (black)
  1 = 128,  0,  0 (dark red)
  2 =   0,128,  0 (dark green) 
  3 = 128,128,  0 (dark yellow)
  4 =   0,  0,128 (dark blue)
  5 = 128,  0,128 (dark magenta) 
  6 =   0,128,128 (dark cian) 
  7 = 192,192,192 (gray)
  8 = 128,128,128 (dark gray)
  9 = 255,  0,  0 (red)     
 10 =   0,255,  0 (green)
 11 = 255,255,  0 (yellow)
 12 =   0,  0,255 (blue)
 13 = 255,  0,255 (magenta)
 14 =   0,255,255 (cian)  
 15 = 255,255,255 (white)

For images with more than 16 colors, and up to 256 colors, all the
color indices must be defined up to the maximum number of colors. For
example, if the biggest image index is 100, then all the colors from
i=16 up to i=100 must be defined even if some indices are not used.

=head2 Samples

You can obtain several images from the L<IUP::ImageLib::XXX|xxx.html>, a library of pre-defined images. To
view the images you can use the L<IUP::View|IUP::View> in the applications included
in the distribution, available at the L<Download|xxx.html>.
B<IUP::View> is also capable of converting several image formats into an
IUP::Image, and save IUP images as LED, Lua or ICO.

The L<EdPatt|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/edpatt> and the
L<IMLAB|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/~scuri/imlab> applications can
load and save images in simplified LED format. They allow operations
such as importing GIF images and exporting them as IUP images.
B<EdPatt> allows you to manually edit the images, and also have support
for images in IUP::Lua.

=head2 IUP::Lua Old Constructor

In Lua, the 8bpp image can also be created using an unnamed table,
using a series of tables for each line. Width and height will be
guessed from the tables sizes. For example:

 img = iup.image{
   { 1,2,3,3,3,3,3,3,3,2,1 }, 
   { 2,1,2,3,3,3,3,3,2,1,2 }, 
   { 3,2,1,2,3,3,3,2,1,2,3 }, 
   { 3,3,2,1,2,3,2,1,2,3,3 }, 
   { 3,3,3,2,1,2,1,2,3,3,3 }, 
   { 3,3,3,3,2,1,2,3,3,3,3 }, 
   { 3,3,3,2,1,2,1,2,3,3,3 }, 
   { 3,3,2,1,2,3,2,1,2,3,3 }, 
   { 3,2,1,2,3,3,3,2,1,2,3 }, 
   { 2,1,2,3,3,3,3,3,2,1,2 }, 
   { 1,2,3,3,3,3,3,3,3,2,1 };
   colors = { 
     "0 1 0",      -- index 1
     "255 0 0",    -- index 2 
     "255 255 0"   -- index 3 
   }
 }

Using this constructor the image data can NOT has 0 indices. Notice
that the indexing of the unamed tables is different than the B<colors>
table. The first value in the B<colors> table is relative to the color
index 1, but the first value of the unamed tables is relative to the
pixel 0.

After the image is created in Lua, the unnamed tables are not
accessible anymore, since "img[1]" will return the attribute "1" value
which is the color "0 1 0". To access the original table values you
must use "raawget" function, for example:

 lin0 = rawget(img, 1)  -- line index 0
 lin1 = rawget(img, 2)  -- line index 1
 lin2 = rawget(img, 3)  -- line index 2
 ...
 pixel0 = lin0[1]       -- column index 0
 pixel1 = lin0[2]       -- column index 1
 pixel3 = lin0[3]       -- column index 3
 ...

=head2 IUP::Lua New Constructors

The new constructors since IUP 3 are different and must contains
explicit values for B<width>, B<height> and B<pixels>. Also the
indexing of the B<colors> table is the same of the B<pixels> table, the
first value is the color index 0. For example:

 img = iup.image{
   width = 11,
   height = 11,
   pixels = {
    1,2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,2,1, 
    2,1,2,0,0,0,0,0,2,1,2, 
    0,2,1,2,0,0,0,2,1,2,0, 
    0,0,2,1,2,0,2,1,2,0,0, 
    0,0,0,2,1,2,1,2,0,0,0, 
    0,0,0,0,2,1,2,0,0,0,0, 
    0,0,0,2,1,2,1,2,0,0,0, 
    0,0,2,1,2,0,2,1,2,0,0, 
    0,2,1,2,0,0,0,2,1,2,0, 
    2,1,2,0,0,0,0,0,2,1,2, 
    1,2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,2,1},
   colors = { 
     "255 255 0"   -- index 0 
     "0 1 0",      -- index 1
     "255 0 0",    -- index 2 
   }
 }

Although in Lua they are still referenced as index 1, so
img.B<colors>[1] returns the color of the index 0 in the image.

Here is the same image but using 24bpp:

 img = iup.imagergb{
   width = 11,
   height = 11,
   pixels = {
     0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,
   255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,
   255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,
   255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,
   255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,
   255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,
   255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,
   255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,
   255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,
   255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0,  255,  0,0,
     0,255,0,  255,  0,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,255,0,  255,  0,0,    0,255,0}
 }

Then at the B<pixels> table we have:

 r0 = img.pixels[1]   g0 = img.pixels[2]   b0 = img.pixels[3]
 r1 = img.pixels[4]   g1 = img.pixels[5]   b1 = img.pixels[6]
 r3 = img.pixels[7]   g3 = img.pixels[8]   b3 = img.pixels[9]
 ...

If the image was created in C then there is no way to access its pixels
values in Lua, except as an userdata using the WID attribute.

=head1 EXAMPLES


The element B<IUP::Image> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over

=item * L<0-basic/button.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/button.pl> - IUP::Button example

=item * L<0-basic/cbox.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/cbox.pl> - IUP::Cbox example

=item * L<0-basic/dialog2.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/dialog2.pl> - IUP::Dialog example

=item * L<0-basic/image.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/image.pl> - IUP::Image example

=item * L<0-basic/label.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/label.pl> - IUP::Label example

=item * L<0-basic/progressbar2.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/progressbar2.pl> - IUP::ProgressBar example

=item * L<0-basic/progressbar3.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/progressbar3.pl> - IUP::ProgressBar example

=item * L<0-basic/toggle.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/toggle.pl> - IUP::Toggle example

=item * L<0-basic/tray.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/0-basic/tray.pl> - IUP::Dialog + TRAY / TRAYTIP / TRAYIMAGE example

=item * L<1-apps/app-mdi.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/1-apps/app-mdi.pl> - IUP app example

=item * L<1-apps/app-sample2.pl|http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/KMX/IUP-0.001/examples/1-apps/app-sample2.pl> - xxxTODO xxx some better callback

=back 



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<IUP::Label|IUP::Label>, L<IUP::Button|IUP::Button>,
L<IUP::Toggle|IUP::Toggle>, L<Destroy|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"Destroy()">.

The original doc: L<iupimage.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupimage.html>
 

=cut