=head1 NAME

IUP::Radio - [GUI element] container for grouping mutual exclusive toggles (radiobutton)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Creates a void container for grouping mutual exclusive toggles. Only
one of its descendent toggles will be active at a time. The toggles can
be at any composition.

It does not have a native representation.

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

 $radio = IUP::Radio->new(Ihandle *child);
 iup.radio{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 radio(child) [in LED]

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element. Usually it is a vbox or
an hbox containing the toggles associated to the radio. It can be NULL.

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements>.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

For more info about concept of attributes (setting/getting values etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::03_Attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes>. Attributes specific to this element:

=over

=item * L<EXPAND|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/EXPAND> (non inheritable)

The default
value is "YES".

=item * B<VALUE> (non inheritable)

name identifier of the active toggle. The
name is set by means of L< IUP::SetHandle|../func/iupsethandle.html>. In
Lua you can also use the element reference directly. When consulted if
the toggles are not mapped into the native system the return value may
be NULL or invalid.

=item * B<VALUE_HANDLE> (non inheritable)

Changes the active toggle. The value
passed must be the handle of a child contained in the radio. When
consulted if the toggles are not mapped into the native system the
return value may be NULL or invalid. 

=item * B<WID> (read-only)

returns -1 if mapped.

=back

The following L<common attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/Common Attributes> are also accepted:

=over

=item * L<FONT|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/FONT>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CLIENTSIZE>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CLIENTOFFSET>,
L<POSITION|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MAXSIZE>,
L<VISIBLE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/VISIBLE>

also accepted.

=back

=head1 NOTES

The radio can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IUP::Append|IUP::Append> or
L<IUP::Insert|IUP::Insert>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

=cut