=for comment based on iup-3.5-XXX-UNFINISHED

=head1 NAME

IUP::Spin - [GUI element] vertical box containing 2 buttons for incrementing/decrementing values

=head1 DESCRIPTION and IUP::SpinBox

This functions will create a control set with a vertical box containing
two buttons, one with an up arrow and the other with a down arrow, to
be used to increment and decrement values.

Unlike the SPIN attribute of the L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text> element, the L<IUP::Spin|IUP::Spin>
element can NOT automatically increment the value and it is NOT
inserted inside the L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text> area.

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

L<IUP::Spin|IUP::Spin> inherits from a L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>, and contains two L<IUP::Button|IUP::Button>.

 $spin = IUP::Spin->new(void);
 iup.spin{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 spin() [in LED]

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements>.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

L<IUP::Spinbox|IUP::Spinbox> is an horizontal container that already contains a
L<IUP::Spin|IUP::Spin>.

 $spinbox = IUP::Spinbox->new(Ihandle* child);
 iup.spinbox{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 spinbox(child)  [in LED]

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element which will receive the
spinbox around.

=head2 CALLBACKS

For more info about concept of callbacks (setting callback handlers etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::04_Callbacks|IUP::Manual::04_Callbacks>. Callbacks specific to this element:

=over

=item * B<SPIN_CB>

Called each time the user clicks in the buttons. It will
increment 1 and decrement -1 by default. Holding the Shift key will set
a factor of 2, holding Ctrl a factor of 10, and both a factor of 100.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int inc); [in C]
 elem:spin_cb(inc: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

=back

=head1 NOTES

The spinbox can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IUP::Append|IUP::Append> or
L<IUP::Insert|IUP::Insert>.

=head1 EXAMPLES


Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text>, L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>,
L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, L<IUP::Button|IUP::Button>

The original doc: L<iupspin.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupspin.html>
 

=cut