=head1 IupElementPropertiesDialog (since 3.5)

Creates an Element Properties Dialog. It is a predefined dialog to edit
the properties of an element in run time. It is a standard B<IupDialog>
constructed with other IUP elements. The dialog can be shown with any
of the show functions B<IupShow>, B<IupShowXY> or B<IupPopup>.

Any existent element can be edited. It does not need to be mapped on
the native system nor visible. It could have been created in C, LED or
Lua.

This is a dialog intended for developers, so they can see and inspect
their elements in other ways.

It contains 3 Tab sections: one for the registered attributes of the
element, one for custom attributes set at the hash table, and one for
the callbacks. The callbacks are just for inspection, and custom
attribute should be handled carefully because they may be not strings.
Registered attributes values are shown in red when they were changed by
the application.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupElementPropertiesDialog(Ihandle* elem); [in C]
 iup.ElementPropertiesDialog(elem: ihandle) -> (dlg: ihandle) [in Lua]
 [NOT available in LED]

B<elem>: identifier of the element to display the properties. Not
optional.

Returns: the identifier of the created dialog, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

Check the L<IupDialog|iupdialog.html#Attributes> attributes.

=head2 Callbacks

Check the L<IupDialog|iupdialog.html#Callbacks> callbacks.

=head2 Examples

 IupShow(IupElementPropertiesDialog(button));   [in C]
 
 iup.Show(iup.ElementPropertiesDialog(button))    [in Lua]

The following dialog layout is displayed next.

[IMAGE]

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupDialog|iupdialog.html>, L< IupShow|../func/iupshow.html>,
L<IupShowXY|../func/iupshowxy.html>, L<IupPopup|../func/iuppopup.html>,
L<IupLayoutDialog|iuplayoutdialog.html>

=cut