=head1 IupFontDlg (Windows and GTK only) (since 3.0)

Creates the Font Dialog element. It is a predefined dialog for
selecting a font. The dialog can be shown with the IupPopup function
only.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupFontDlg(void); [in C]
 iup.fontdlg() -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 fontdlg() [in LED]

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<PREVIEWTEXT> [GTK only]: the text shown in the preview area. If not
defined GTK will provide a default text.

B<COLOR> [Windows Only]: The initial color value and the returned
selected value if the user pressed the Ok button. In Windows the Choose
Font dialog allows hte user to select a color from a pre-defined list
of colors.

L<PARENTDIALOG|../attrib/iup_parentdialog.html> (creation only): Name
of a dialog to be used as parent. This dialog will be always in front
of the parent dialog.

B<STATUS> (read-only): defined to "1" if the user pressed the Ok
button, NULL if pressed the Cancel button.

L<TITLE|../attrib/iup_title.html>: Dialog title.

B<VALUE>: The initial font value and the returned selected value if the
user pressed the Ok button. Has the same format of the
L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html> attribute.

=head2 Callbacks

L<HELP_CB|../call/iup_help_cb.html>: Action generated when the Help
button is pressed.

=head2 Notes

The B<IupFontDlg> is a native pre-defined dialog not altered by
B<IupSetLanguage>.

To show the dialog, use function B<IupPopup>. In Lua, use the B<popup>
function.

The dialog is mapped only inside B<IupPopup>, B<IupMap> does nothing.

=head2 Examples

 Ihandle* dlg = IupFontDlg();
 
 IupSetAttribute(dlg, "COLOR", "128 0 255");
 IupSetAttribute(dlg, "VALUE", "Times New Roman, Bold 20");
 IupSetAttribute(dlg, "TITLE", "IupFontDlg Test");
 IupSetCallback(dlg, "HELP_CB", (Icallback)help_cb);
 
 IupPopup(dlg, IUP_CURRENT, IUP_CURRENT);
 
 if (IupGetInt(dlg, "STATUS"))
 {
   printf("OK\n");
   printf("  VALUE(%s)\n", IupGetAttribute(dlg, "VALUE"));
   printf("  COLOR(%s)\n", IupGetAttribute(dlg, "COLOR"));
 }
 else
   printf("CANCEL\n");
 
 IupDestroy(dlg); 

Windows XP

[IMAGE]

GTK/GNOME

[IMAGE]

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupMessageDlg|iupmessagedlg.html>, L<IupFileDlg|iupgetfiledlg.html>,
L<IupPopup|../func/iuppopup.html>

=cut