=head1 IupGetParam

Shows a modal dialog for capturing parameter values using several types
of controls.

=head2 X<Creation>Creation and Show

=over

=over

 int IupGetParam(const char* title, Iparamcb action, void* user_data, const char* format,...); [in C]
 iup.GetParam(title: string, action: function, format: string,...) -> (status: boolean, ...) [in Lua]

title

: dialog title.

B<action:> user callback to be called whenever a parameter value was
changed, and when the user pressed the OK button. It can be NULL.

B<user_data>: user pointer passed to the user callback.

B<format>: string describing the parameter

...: list of variables address with initial values for the parameters.

Returns: a B<status> code 1 if the OK button is pressed, 0 if the user
canceled or if an error occurred.

The function will abort if there are errors in the format string as in
the number of the expected parameters. In Lua, the values are returned
by the function in the same order they were passed. The Lua type of
each parameter is the equivalent C type (boolean is integer).

=back

=back

=head2 Callbacks

=over

 int function(Ihandle* dialog, int param_index, void* user_data); [in C]luafunction(dialog: ihandle, param_index: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<dialog>: dialog handle

B<param_index>: current parameter being changed. It is -1 if the user
pressed the B<OK> button. It is -2 after the dialog is B<mapped> and
just before it is shown. It is -3 if the user pressed the B<Cancel>
button. It is -4 if the user pressed the B<Help> button, if any.

B<user_data>: a user pointer that is passed in the function call.

Returns: You can reject the change or the OK action by returning 0 in
the callback, otherwise you must return 1.

You should not programmatically change the current parameter value
during the callback. On the other hand you can freely change the value
of other parameters.

Use the dialog attribute "PARAMn" to get the parameter "Ihandle*",
where "n" is the parameter index in the order they are specified
starting at 0, but separators and button names are not counted. Notice
that this is not the actual control, use the parameter attribute
"CONTROL" to get the actual control. For example:

 Ihandle* param2 = (Ihandle*)IupGetAttribute(dialog, "PARAM2");
 int value2 = IupGetInt(param2, IUP_VALUE);
 
 Ihandle* param5 = (Ihandle*)IupGetAttribute(dialog, "PARAM5");
 Ihandle* ctrl5 = (Ihandle*)IupGetAttribute(param5, "CONTROL");
 
 if (value2 == 0)
 {
   IupSetAttribute(param5, IUP_VALUE, "New Value");
   IupSetAttribute(ctrl5, IUP_VALUE, "New Value");
 }

Since parameters are user controls and not real controls, you must
update the control value and the parameter value.

Be aware that programmatically changes are not filtered. The valuator,
when available, can be retrieved using the parameter attribute
"AUXCONTROL". The valuator is not automatically updated when the text
box is changed programmatically. The parameter label is also available
using the parameter attribute "LABEL".

=back

=head2 X<Attributes>Attributes (inside the callback)

For the dialog:

"PARAMn" - returns an IUP Ihandle* representing the nth parameter,
indexed by the declaration order, not counting separators or button
names.

"OK" - returns an IUP Ihandle*, the main button.

"CANCEL" - returns an IUP Ihandle*, the close button.

For a parameter:

"LABEL" - returns an IUP Ihandle*, the label associated with the
parameter.

"CONTROL" - returns an IUP Ihandle*, the real control associated with
the parameter.

"AUXCONTROL" - returns an IUP Ihandle*, the auxiliary control
associated with the parameter (only for Valuators).

"INDEX" - returns an integer value associated with the parameter index.
B<IupGetInt> can also be used.

"VALUE" - returns the parameter value as a string, but B<IupGetFloat>
and B<IupGetInt> can also be used. It usually contains the new value of
the control while the VALUE attribute of the control still has the old
value.

In Lua, to retrieve a parameter you must use the following function:

 iup.GetParamParam(dialog: ihandle, param_index: number)-> (param: ihandle) [in Lua]

B<dialog>: Identifier of the dialog.

B<param_index>: parameter to be retrieved.

=head2 Notes

The format string must have the following format, notice the "\n" at
the end

"B<I<text>>%B<I<x>[I<extra>]{tip}>\n", where:

B<I<text>> is a descriptive text, to be placed to the left of the entry
field in a label.

B<I<x>> is the type of the parameter. The valid options are:

B<b> = boolean (shows a True/False toggle, use "int" in C)

i = integer (shows a integer number filtered text box, use "int" in C)

r = real (shows a real number filtered text box, use "float" in C)

a = angle in degrees (shows a real number filtered text box and a dial
[if B<IupControlsOpen> is called], use "float" in C)

B<s> = string (shows a text box, use "char*" in C, it must have room
enough for your string)

B<m> = multiline string (shows a multiline text box, use "char*" in C,
it must have room enough for your string)

B<l> = list (shows a dropdown list box, use "int" in C for the zero
based item index selected)

B<o> = list (shows a list of toggles inside a radio, use "int" in C for
the zero based item index selected)

B<t> = separator (shows a horizontal line separator label, in this case
text can be an empty string, not included in parameter count)

B<f> = string (same as B<s>, but also show a button to open a file
selection dialog box)

B<c> = string (same as B<s>, but also show a color button to open a
color selection dialog box)

n = string (same as B<s>, but also show a font button to open a font
selection dialog box)

u = buttons names (allow to redefine the OK and Cancel button names,
and to add a Help button, use [ok,cancel,help] as extra data, can omit
one of them, it will use the default name, not included in parameter
count) (since 3.1)

B<I<extra>> is one or more additional options for the given type

B<[min,max,step]> are optional limits for integer and real types. The
B<max> and B<step> values can be omitted. When B<min> and B<max> are
specified a valuator will also be added to change the value. To specify
B<step>, B<max> must be also specified. B<step> is the size of the
increment.

B<[false,true]> are optional strings for boolean types to be displayed
after the toggle. The strings can not have commas 'B<,>', nor brackets
'B<[>' or 'B<]>'.

mask is an optional mask for the string and multiline types. The dialog
uses the L<MASK|../attrib/iup_mask.html> attribute internally. In this
case we do no use the brackets 'B<[>' and 'B<]>' to avoid confusion
with the specified mask.

B<|item0|item1|item2,...|> are the items of the list. At least one item
must exist. Again the brackets are not used to increase the
possibilities for the strings, instead you must use 'B<|>'. Items index
are zero based start.

B<[dialogtype|filter|directory|nochangedir|nooverwriteprompt]> are the
respective attribute values passed to the L<
IupFileDlg|iupfiledlg.html> control when activated. All commas must
exist, but you can let empty values to use the default values. No mask
can be set.

B<tip> is a string that is displayed in a TIP for the main control of
the parameter. (since 3.0)

There is no extra parameters for the color string. The mask is
automatically set to capture 3 or 4 unsigned integers from 0 to 255 (R
G B) or (R G B A) (alpha is optional).

The number of lines in the format string (number of '\n') will
determine the number of required parameters. But separators will not
count as parameters.

A integer parameter always has a spin attached to the text to increment
and decrement the value. A real parameter only has a spin in a full
interval is defined (min and max), in this case the default step is
(max-min)/20. When the callback is called because a spin was activated
then the attribute SPINNING of the dialog will be defined to a non NULL
and non zero value.

The dialog is resizable if it contains a string, a multiline string or
a number with a valuator. All the multiline strings will increase size
equally in both directions.

The dialog uses a global attribute called "PARENTDIALOG" as the parent
dialog if it is defined. It also uses a global attribute called "ICON"
as the dialog icon if it is defined.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

Here is an example showing many the possible parameters. We show only
one for each type, but you can have as many parameters of the same type
you want.

  int pboolean = 1;
  int pinteger = 3456;
  float preal = 3.543f;
  int pinteger2 = 192;
  float preal2 = 0.5f;
  float pangle = 90;
  char pstring[100] = "string text";
  char pfont[100] = "Courier, 24";
  char pcolor[100] = "255 0 128";
  int plist = 2, poptions = 1;
  char pstring2[200] = "second text\nsecond line";
  char file_name[500] = "test.jpg";
  
  if (!IupGetParam("Title", param_action, 0,
                   "Bt %u[, MyCancel, Help!]\n"
                   "Boolean: %b[No,Yes]\n"
                   "Integer: %i\n"
                   "Real 1: %r\n"
                   "Sep1 %t\n"
                   "Integer: %i[0,255]\n"
                   "Real 2: %r[-1.5,1.5,0.05]\n"
                   "Sep2 %t\n"
                   "Angle: %a[0,360]\n"
                   "String: %s\n"
                   "Options: %o|item0|item1|item2|\n" 
                   "List: %l|item0|item1|item2|item3|item4|item5|item6|\n" 
                   "File: %f[OPEN|*.bmp;*.jpg|CURRENT|NO|NO]\n"
                   "Color: %c{Color Tip}\n"
                   "Font: %n\n"
                   "Sep3 %t\n"
                   "Multiline: %m\n",
                   &pboolean, &pinteger, &preal, &pinteger2, &preal2, &pangle, pstring, 
                   &poptions, &plist, file_name, pcolor, pfont, pstring2, NULL))
    return;

[IMAGE]

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupScanf|iupscanf.html>, L<IupGetColor|iupgetcolor.html>,
L<IupMask|iupmask.html>, L<IupVal|../elem/iupval.html>,
L<IupDial|iupdial.html>, L<IupList|../elem/iuplist.html>,
L<IupFileDlg|iupfiledlg.html>.

=cut