=head1 IupListDialog

Shows a modal dialog to select items from a simple or multiple
selection list.

=head2 Creation and Show

 int IupListDialog(int type, const char *title, int size, const char** list, int op, int max_col, int max_lin, int* marks); [in C]
 iup.ListDialog(type: number, title: string, size: number, list: table of strings, op: number, max_col: number, max_lin: number, marks: table of numbers) -> status: number [in Lua]

B<type>: 1=simple selection; 2=multiple selection

B<title>: Text for the dialogE<rsquo>s title

B<size>: Number of options

B<list>: List of options. Must have B<size> elements

B<op>: Initial selected item when type=1. starts at 1 (note that this
index is different from the return value, kept for compability reasons)

B<max_col>: Maximum number of columns in the list

B<max_lin>: Maximum number of lines in the list

B<marks>: List of the items selection state, used only when type=2. Can
be NULL when type=1. When type=2 must have B<size> elements

Returns: When type=1, the function returns the number of the selected
option (starts at 0), or -1 if the user cancels the operation.

When type=2, the function returns -1 when the user cancels the
operation. If the user does not cancel the operation the function
returns 1 and the B<marks> parameter will have value 1 for the options
selected by the user and value 0 for non-selected options. In Lua, the
input table mark is changed.

=head2 Notes

The dialog uses a global attribute called "PARENTDIALOG" as the parent
dialog if it is defined. It also uses a global attribute called "ICON"
as the dialog icon if it is defined.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

[IMAGE]

=head2 See Also

L<IupMessage|iupmessage.html>, L<IupScanf|iupscanf.html>,
L<IupGetFile|iupgetfile.html>, L< IupAlarm|iupalarm.html>

=cut