=head1 IupMessageDlg (since 3.0)

Creates the Message Dialog element. It is a predefined dialog for
displaying a message. The dialog can be shown with the IupPopup
function only.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupMessageDlg(void); [in C]
 iup.messagedlg{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 messagedlg() [in LED]

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<BUTTONDEFAULT>: Number of the default button. Can be "1" or "2". "2"
is valid only for "OKCANCEL" and "YESNO" button configurations.
Default: "1".

B<BUTTONRESPONSE>: Number of the pressed button. Can be "1" or "2".
Default: "1".

B<BUTTONS>: Buttons configuration. Can have values: "OK", "OKCANCEL" or
"YESNO". Default: "OK". Additionally the "Help" button is displayed if
the HELP_CB callback is defined.

B<DIALOGTYPE>: Type of dialog defines which icon will be displayed
besides the message text. Can have values: "MESSAGE" (No Icon), "ERROR"
(Stop-sign), "WARNING" (Exclamation-point), "QUESTION" (Question-mark)
or "INFORMATION" (Letter "i"). Default: "MESSAGE".

L<PARENTDIALOG|../attrib/iup_parentdialog.html> (creation only): Name
of a dialog to be used as parent. This dialog will be always in front
of the parent dialog. If not defined in Motif the dialog could not be
modal.

L<TITLE|../attrib/iup_title.html>: Dialog title.

B<VALUE>: Message text.

=head2 Callbacks

L<HELP_CB|../call/iup_help_cb.html>: Action generated when the Help
button is pressed.

=head2 Notes

The B<IupMessageDlg> is a native pre-defined dialog not altered by
B<IupSetLanguage>.

To show the dialog, use function B<IupPopup>. In Lua, use the B<popup>
function.

The dialog is mapped only inside B<IupPopup>, B<IupMap> does nothing.

In Windows the position (x,y) used in B<IupPopup> is ignored and the
dialog is always centered on screen.

The B<IupMessage> function simply creates and popup a B<IupMessageDlg>.

In Windows each different dialog type is always associated with a
different beep sound.

In Windows, if PARENTDIALOG is specified then it will be modal relative
only to its parent.

=head2 Examples

 Ihandle* dlg = IupMessageDlg();
 
 IupSetAttribute(dlg, "DIALOGTYPE", "WARNING");
 IupSetAttribute(dlg, "TITLE", "IupMessageDlg Test");
 IupSetAttribute(dlg, "BUTTONS", "OKCANCEL");
 IupSetAttribute(dlg, "VALUE", "Message Text\nSecond Line");
 IupSetCallback(dlg, "HELP_CB", (Icallback)help_cb);
 
 IupPopup(dlg, IUP_CURRENT, IUP_CURRENT);
 
 printf("BUTTONRESPONSE(%s)\n", IupGetAttribute(dlg, "BUTTONRESPONSE"));
 
 IupDestroy(dlg);  

Windows XP

[IMAGE]

Motif/Mwm

[IMAGE]

GTK/GNOME

[IMAGE]

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupMessage|iupmessage.html>, L<IupScanf|iupscanf.html>,
L<IupListDialog|iuplistdialog.html>, L<IupAlarm|iupalarm.html>,
L<IupGetFile|iupgetfile.html>, L<IupPopup|../func/iuppopup.html>

=cut