=head1 IupScanf

Shows a modal dialog for capturing values with a format similar to the
scanf function in the C stdio library.

B<Deprecated>: Use L<IupGetParam|iupgetparam.html> instead.

=head2 Creation and Show

 int IupScanf(const char *format, ...); [in C]
 iup.Scanf(format: string, ...) -> (...) [in Lua]

B<format>: Reading format

...: List of variables

Returns: In C the number of successfully read fields, or -1 when the
user has canceled the operation. In Lua, the code is not returned, the
values are returned by the function in the same order they were passed,
or nil when the user has canceled the operation.

=head2 Notes

The B<fmt> format must include a title and the descriptions of the
variable fields to be read, using the following syntax:

B<- B<First line>>: Window title followed by '\n'

B<- B<Following lines>>: Must be specified for each variable to be
read, in the following format:

"B<text>%B<t>.B<v>%B<f>\n", where:

B<text> is a descriptive text, to be placed to the left of the text
field in a label.

B<t> is the maximum number of characters allowed

B<v> is the number of visible characters in the text field

B<f> is the type (char, float, etc), in the C format for I/O services
(d,i,o,u,x,X,e,f,g,E,G,s, and the modifiers l,h)

All the fields use a text box for input. If you need better control of
what characters the user enters, you should use
L<IupGetParam|iupgetparam.html>. This other dialog also has many other
resources not available in B<IupScanf>.

The dialog uses a global attribute called "PARENTDIALOG" as the parent
dialog if it is defined. It also uses a global attribute called "ICON"
as the dialog icon if it is defined.

=head2 Examples

Captures an integer number, a floating-point value and a character
string.

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

[IMAGE]

=head2 See Also

L<IupGetFile|iupgetfile.html>, L<IupMessage|iupmessage.html>,
L<IupListDialog|iuplistdialog.html>, L<IupAlarm|iupalarm.html>,
L<IupGetParam|iupgetparam.html>

=cut