=head1 Tecgraf/PUC-Rio Library Download Tips

All the libraries were build using B<Tecmake>. Please use it if you
intend to recompile the sources. B<Tecmake> can be found at
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>tecmake|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/tecmake>.

The B<IM> files can be downloaded at L<
http:E<47>E<47>sourceforge.netE<47>projectsE<47>imtoolkitE<47>filesE<47>|http://sourceforge.net/projects/imtoolkit/files/>.

The B<CD> files can be downloaded at L<
http:E<47>E<47>sourceforge.netE<47>projectsE<47>canvasdrawE<47>filesE<47>|http://sourceforge.net/projects/canvasdraw/files/>.

The B<IUP> files can be downloaded at L<
http:E<47>E<47>sourceforge.netE<47>projectsE<47>iupE<47>filesE<47>|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/>.

The B<Lua> files can be downloaded at L<
http:E<47>E<47>sourceforge.netE<47>projectsE<47>luabinariesE<47>filesE<47>|http://sourceforge.net/projects/luabinaries/files/>.

=head2 X<build>Build Configuration

Libraries and executables were built using speed optimization. In UNIX
the dynamic libraries were NOT built with the -fpic parameter. In MacOS
X the dynamic libraries are in bundle format. The source code along
with the "config.mak" files for B<Tecmake> are also available.

The DLLs were built using the B<cdecl> calling convention. This should
be a problem for Visual Basic users.

In Visual C++ 6 and 7 we use the single thread C Run Time Library for
static libraries and the multi thread C RTL for DLLs. Because this were
the default in Visual Studio for new projects. Since Visual C++ 8, both
use the multithread C RTL.

=head2 X<pack>Packaging

The package files available for download are named according to the
platform where they were build.

In UNIX all strings are based in the result of the command "uname -a".
The package name is a concatenation of the platform B<uname>, the
system B<major> version number and the system B<minor> version number.
Some times a suffix must be added to complement the name. The compiler
used is always gcc. Binaries for 64-bits receive the suffix: "_64". In
Linux when there are different versions of gcc for the same uname, the
platform name is created adding the major version number of the
compiler added as a suffix: "g3" for gcc 3 and "g4" for gcc 4.

In Windows the platform name is the B<compiler> and its B<major>
version number.

All library packages B<(*_lib*)> contains pre-compiled binaries for the
specified platform and includes. Packages with B<"_bin"> suffix
contains executables only.

The package name is a general reference for the platform. If you have
the same platform it will work fine, but it may also work in similar
platforms.

Here are some examples of packages:

B<iup2_4_Linux26_lib.tar.gz> = IUP 2.4 32-bits Libraries and Includes
for Linux with Kernel version 2.6 built with gcc 3.

B<iup2_4_>B<Linux26g4_64>B<_bin.tar.gz> = IUP 2.4 64-bits Executables
for Linux with Kernel version 2.6 built with gcc 4.

B<iup2_4_Win32_vc8_lib.tar.gz> = IUP 2.4 32-bits Static Libraries and
Includes for Windows to use with Visual C++ 8 (2005).

B<iup2_4_Win32_dll9_lib.tar.gz> = IUP 2.4 32-bits Dynamic Libraries
(DLLs), import libraries and Includes for Windows to use with Visual
C++ 9 (2008).

B<iup2_4_Docs_html.tar.gz> = IUP 2.4 documentation files in HTML format
(the web site files can be browsed locally).

B<iup2_4_Win32_bin.tar.gz> = IUP 2.4 32-bits Executables for Windows.

The documentation files are in HTML format. They do not include the CHM
and PDF versions. These two files are provided as a separate download,
but they all have the same documentation.

=head2 X<install>Installation

For any platform we recommend you to create a folder to contain the
third party libraries you download. Then just unpack the packages you
download in that folder. The packages already contains a directory
structure that separates each library or toolkit. For example:

 \mylibs\
         iup\
             bin\
             html\
             include\
             lib\Linux26
             lib\Linux26g4_64
             lib\vc8
             src
         cd\
         im\
         lua5.1\
         lua52\

This structure will also made the process of building from sources more
simple, since the projects and makefiles will assume this structure .

=head2 X<usage>Usage

For makefiles use:

 1) "-I/mylibs/iup/include" to find include files
 2) "-L/mylibs/iup/lib/Linux26" to find library files
 3) "-liup" to specify the library files

For IDEs the configuration involves the same 3 steps above, but each
IDE has a different dialog. The IUP toolkit has a Guide for some IDEs:

B<Borland C++ BuilderX> -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>iupE<47>enE<47>ide_guideE<47>cppbx.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/ide_guide/cppbx.html>

B<Code Blocks> -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>iupE<47>enE<47>ide_guideE<47>codeblocks.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/ide_guide/codeblocks.html>

B<Dev-C++> -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>iupE<47>enE<47>ide_guideE<47>dev-cpp.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/ide_guide/dev-cpp.html>

B<Eclipse for C++> - L<
http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>iupE<47>enE<47>ide_guideE<47>eclipse.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/ide_guide/eclipse.html>

B<Microsoft Visual C++> (Visual Studio 2003) -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>iupE<47>enE<47>ide_guideE<47>msvc.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/ide_guide/msvc.html>

B<Microsoft Visual C++> (Visual Studio 2005) -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>iupE<47>enE<47>ide_guideE<47>msvc8.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/ide_guide/msvc8.html>

B<Open Watcom> -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>iupE<47>enE<47>ide_guideE<47>owc.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/ide_guide/owc.html>

=head2 X<plat>Available Platforms

The following platforms can be available:

Package Name

Description

B<AIX43>

IBM AIX 4.3 (ppc) / gcc 2.95 / Motif 2.1

B<IRIX65>

SGI IRIX 6.5 (mips) / gcc 3.0 / Motif 2.1

B<IRIX6465>

SGI IRIX 6.5 (mips) / gcc 3.3 / Motif 1.2

B<Linux26g4>

Ubuntu 10.4 (x86) / Kernel 2.6 / gcc 4.4 / Open Motif 2.2 3 / GTK 2.20

B<Linux26g4_64>

Ubuntu 10.4 (x64) / Kernel 2.6 / gcc 4.4 / Open Motif 2.2 3 / GTK 2.20

B<Linux30>

Ubuntu 11.10 (x86) / Kernel 3.0 / gcc 4.6 / Open Motif 2.2 3 / GTK 2.24

B<Linux30_64>

Ubuntu 11.10 (x64) / Kernel 3.0 / gcc 4.6 / Open Motif 2.2 3 / GTK 2.24

B<Linux32>

Ubuntu 12.04 (x86) / Kernel 3.2 / gcc 4.6 / Open Motif 2.3 3 / GTK 2.24

B<Linux32_64>

Ubuntu 12.04 (x64) / Kernel 3.2 / gcc 4.6 / Open Motif 2.3 3 / GTK 2.24

B<SunOS510>

Sun Solaris 10 (sparc) / gcc 3.4 / Motif 2.1

B<SunOS510x86>

Sun Solaris 10 (x86) / gcc 3.4 / Motif 2.1

B<FreeBSD54>

Free BSD 5.4 (x86) / gcc 3.4

B<MacOS104>

Mac OS X 10.4 (ppc) [Tiger] / Darwin Kernel 8 / gcc 4.0

B<MacOS104x86>

Mac OS X 10.4 (x86) [Tiger] / Darwin Kernel 8 / gcc 4.0

B<MacOS105x86>

Mac OS X 10.5 (x86) [Leopard] / Darwin Kernel 9 / gcc 4.0

B<MacOS106>

Mac OS X 10.6 (x64) [Snow Leopard] / Darwin Kernel 10 / gcc 4.2

B<MacOS107>

Mac OS X 10.7 (x64) [Lion] / Darwin Kernel 10 / gcc 4.2

B<Win32_vc8>

Static library built with Microsoft Visual C++ 8.0 (2005) (static
RTL/multithread)

Also compatible with Microsoft Visual C++ 2005 Express Edition

B<Win32_vc9>

Static library built with Microsoft Visual C++ 9.0 (2008) (static
RTL/multithread)

Also compatible with Microsoft Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition

B<Win32_vc10>

Static library built with Microsoft Visual C++ 10.0 (2010) (static
RTL/multithread)

Also compatible with Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Express Edition -

L<http:E<47>E<47>www.microsoft.comE<47>expressE<47>vcE<47>|http://www.microsoft.com/express/vc/>
E<sup1>

B<Win32_dll8>

DLL and import library built with vc8, creates dependency with
MSVCR80.DLL

B<Win32_dll9>

DLL and import library built with vc9, creates dependency with
MSVCR90.DLL

B<Win32_dll10>

DLL and import library built with vc10, creates dependency with
MSVCR100.DLL

B<Win64_vc8>

Same as B<Win32_vc8> but for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard.

B<Win64_vc9>

Same as B<Win32_vc9> but for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard.

B<Win64_vc10>

Same as B<Win32_vc10> but for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard.

B<Win64_dll8>

Same as B<Win32_dll8> but for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard.

B<Win64_dll9>

Same as B<Win32_dll9> but for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard.

B<Win64_dll10>

Same as B<Win32_dll10> but for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard.

B<Win32_gcc4>

Static library built with Cygwin gcc 4.3 (Depends on Cygwin DLL 1.7) -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.cygwin.comE<47>|http://www.cygwin.com/> E<sup1>

B<Win32_cygw17>

Same as B<Win32_gcc4>, but using the Cygwin Posix system and also with
a DLL and import library

B<Win32_dllg4>

DLL and import library built with Cygwin gcc 4.3 (See B<Win32_gcc4>)

B<Win32_mingw4>

Static library built with MingW gcc 4.6 -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.mingw.orgE<47>|http://www.mingw.org/> E<sup1>

Also compatible with Dev-C++ -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.bloodshed.netE<47>devcpp.html|http://www.bloodshed.net/devcpp.html>

and with Code Blocks - L<
http:E<47>E<47>www.codeblocks.orgE<47>|http://www.codeblocks.org/>
E<sup1>

B<Win32_dllw4>

DLL and import library built with MingW gcc 4.6 (See B<Win32_mingw4>)

B<Win64_mingw4>

Static library built with MingW gcc 4.5 -
L<http:E<47>E<47>mingw-w64.sourceforge.netE<47>|http://mingw-w64.sourceforge.net/>
E<sup1>

Tool chains targeting Win64 / Personal Builds / "sezero"

for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard.

B<Win64_dllw4>

DLL and import library built with MingW gcc 4.5,

for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard.

creates dependency with MSVCRT.DLL

B<Win32_owc1>

Static library built with Open Watcom 1.5 -
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.openwatcom.orgE<47>|http://www.openwatcom.org/>

B<Win32_bc55>

Static library built with Borland C++ 5.5 Compiler -

L<https:E<47>E<47>downloads.embarcadero.comE<47>freeE<47>c_builder|https://downloads.embarcadero.com/free/c_builder>
E<sup1>

B<Win32_bc6>

Static library built with Embarcadero C++ Builder 2010 / Embarcadero
C++ 6 Compiler -

L<https:E<47>E<47>downloads.embarcadero.comE<47>freeE<47>c_builder|https://downloads.embarcadero.com/free/c_builder>
(trial)

B<Win32_bin>

Executables only for Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista/7 (can be generated by
any of the above compilers)

B<Win64_bin>

Same as B<Win32_bin> but for 64-bits systems using the x64 standard

B<Win32_cygw17_bin>

Executables only for Windows NT/2000/XP, but using the Cygwin Posix
system (See B<Win32_cygw17>)

E<sup1> - Notice that all the Windows compilers with links here are
free to download and use.

E<sup2> - Recently Borland removed the C++ Builder X from download. But
if you bought a book that has the CD of the compiler, then it is still
free to use.

3 - Open Motif 2.2 is classified as 'experimental' by the Open Group.

=cut