=head1 Guide

=head2 X<start>Getting Started

The CD library is a basic graphic library (GL). In a GL paradigm you
use B<primitives>, which have B<attributes>, to draw on a B<canvas>.
All the library functions reflect this paradigm.

The B<canvas> is the basic element. It can have several forms: a paper,
a video monitor, a graphic file format, etc. The virtual drawing
surface where the canvas exists is represented by a B<driver>. Only the
driver knows how to draw on its surface. The user does not use the
driver directly, but only the canvas.

To make the library simple we use the concept of an active canvas, over
which all the primitives are drawn. This also allows the use of an
expansion mechanism using function tables. Unfortunately if a function
is called without an active canvas a memory invasion will occur. On the
other hand, the mechanism allows the library to be expanded with new
drivers without limits.

The B<attributes> are also separated from the primitives. They reside
in the canvas in a state mechanism. If you change the attribute's state
in the canvas all the primitives drawn after that canvas and that
depend on the attribute will be drawn in a different way.

The set of B<primitives> is very small but complete enough to compose a
GL. Some primitives are system dependent for performance reasons. Some
drivers (window and device based) use system functions to optimally
implement the primitives. Sometimes this implies in a in small
different behavior of some functions. Also some primitives do not make
sense in some drivers, like server images in file-based drivers.

The set of available functions is such that it can be implemented in
most drivers. Some drivers have sophisticated resources, which cannot
be implemented in other drivers but can be made available using a
generic attribute mechanism.

=head2 X<buildapp>Building Applications

All the CD functions are declared in the C<cd.h> header file; World
Coordinate functions are declared in the C<wd.h> header file; and each
driver has a correspondent header file that must be included to create
a canvas. It is important to include each driver header after the
inclusion of the C<cd.h> header file.

To link the application you must add the B<cd.lib/libcd.a/libcd.so> and
B< freetype6.lib/libfreetype.a/libfreetype.so > libraries to the linker
options. If you use an IUP Canvas then you must also link with the
B<iupcd.lib/libiupcd.a/libiupcd.so> library available in the IUP
distribution.

In UNIX, CD uses GDK or the Xlib (X11) libraries. To statically link an
application in UNIX with CD, add also the GDK or the X11 libraries.

The download files list includes the L<TecgrafE<47>PUC-Rio Library
Download Tips|download_tips.html> document, with a description of all
the available binaries.

=head2 X<buildlib>Building the Library

In the Downloads you will be able to find pre-compiled binaries for
many platforms, all those binaries were built using Tecmake. Tecmake is
a command line multi compiler build tool based on GNU make, available
at
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>tecmake|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/tecmake>.
Tecmake is used by all the Tecgraf libraries and many applications.

You do not need to install Tecmake, scripts for Posix and Windows
systems are already included in the source code package. Just type
"make" in the command line on the main folder and all libraries and
executables will be build.

In Linux, check the "L<Building Lua, IM, CD and IUP in
Linux|building.html>" guide.

In Windows, check the "L<Building Lua, IM, CD and IUP in
Window|buildwin.html>" guide.

If you decide to install Tecmake, the Tecmake configuration files
(*.mak) are available at the "src" folder, and are very easy to
understand. In the main folder, and in each source folder, there are
files named I<make_uname.bat> that build the libraries using
B<Tecmake>. To build for Windows using Visual C 9.0 (2008) for example,
just execute I<"make_uname vc9"> in the iup main folder, or for the
DLLs type I< "make_uname dll9">. The Visual Studio workspaces with the
respective projects available in the source package is for debugging
purposes only.

Make sure you have all the dependencies for the library you want
installed, see the documentation bellow.

If you are going to build all the libraries, the makefiles and projects
expect the following directory tree:

 \mylibs\
         cd\
         im\
         lua5.1\

To control that location set the TECTOOLS_HOME environment variable to
the folder were the IM and Lua libraries are installed.

=head2 Libraries Dependencies

 cd -> FreeType (included as separate library)
    cdwin* -> gdi32 user32 comdlg32 (system - Windows)
    cdx11* -> X11 (system - UNIX)
    cdgdk+cdcairo* -> gdk-win32-2.0 pangowin32-1.0(system - Windows)
           -> gdk-x11-2.0 pangox-1.0 (system - UNIX)
           -> cairo gdk_pixbuf-2.0 pango-1.0 gobject-2.0 gmodule-2.0 glib-2.0 (system - Windows/UNIX)
 cdgdiplus* -> cd
           -> gdiplus (system - Windows)
 cdxrender* -> cd
           -> Xrender Xft (system - UNIX)
 cdcairo  -> pangocairo-1.0 cairo (system - Windows/UNIX)
 cdpdf    -> pdflib (included as separate library)
 cdgl     -> opengl32 (system - Windows)
          -> GL (system - UNIX)
          -> ftgl (included as separate library)
 cdlua51  -> cd
          -> lua5.1
 cdluacontextplus -> cdlua51
                  -> cdcontextplus
 cdluaim51 -> cdlua51
           -> imlua51 
 cdluapdf51 -> cdlua51
            -> cdpdf
 cdluagl51 -> cdlua51
           -> cdgl
 
 (*) In Windows, "cdwin" is called "cd", "cdgdiplus" is called "cdcontextplus". 
     In Linux and BSD "cdgdk+cdcairo" is called "cd", "cdxrender" is called "cdcontextplus". 
     In IRIX, AIX and SunOS "cdx11" is called "cd", "cdxrender" is called "cdcontextplus".

As a general rule (excluding system dependencies and included third
party libraries): CD has NO external dependencies, and CDLua depends on
Lua and IMLua. Just notice that not all CDLua libraries depend on
IMLua.

The Lua bindings for IUP, CD and IM (Makefiles and Pre-compiled
binaries) depend on the L<LuaBinaries|http://luabinaries.luaforge.net/>
distribution. So if you are going to build from source, then use the
B<LuaBinaries> source package also, not the B<Lua.org> original source
package. If you like to use another location for the Lua files define
LUA_SUFFIX, LUA_INC, LUA_LIB and LUA_BIN before using Tecmake.

In Ubuntu you will need to install the following packages:

 libx11-dev
 libxpm-dev
 libxmu-dev
 libxft-dev (for the XRender driver)
 libgtk2.0-dev (for the GDK driver)

=head2 X<Environment>Environment Variables

B<CDDIR> - This environment variable is used by some drivers to locate
useful data files, such as font definition files. It contains the
directory path without the final slash.

B<CD_QUIET> - In UNIX, if this variable is defined, it does not show
the library's version info on I<sdtout>.

B<CD_>B<XERROR> - In UNIX, if this variable is defined, it will show
the X-Windows error messages on I<sdterr>.

=head2 X<NewDriver>Implementing a Driver

The best way to implement a new driver is based on an existing one. For
this reason, we provide a code of the simplest driver possible, see
L<CDXX.H|../download/cdxx.h> and L<CDXX.C|../download/cdxx.c>. But
first you should read the L<Internal Architecture|internal.html>.

=head2 X<Play>Intercepting Primitives

To fill data structures of library primitives during a cdPlay call you
must implement a driver and activate it before calling cdPlay. Inside
your driver primitives you can fill your data structure with the
information interpreted by the cdPlay function.

=head2 X<IUP>IUP Compatibility

The B<IupCanvas> element of the
L<IUP|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/> interface toolkit can be used
as a visualization surface for a CD canvas. There are two moments in
which one must be careful when an application is using both libraries:
when creating the CD canvas, and when changing the size of the IUP
canvas.

=head2 Creating the CD Canvas

The CD_IUP driver parameter needs only the Ihandle* of the B<
IupCanvas>. But B<cdCreateCanvas> must be called after the B<IupCanvas>
element has been mapped into the native system.

But a call to B<IupShow> generates an ACTION callback. And a direct
call to B<IupMap> can generate a RESIZE_CB callback.

So the best way to create a CD canvas for a IUP canvas is to use the
B<IupCanvas> MAP_CB callback. This callback will be always called
before any other callback.

The application must be linked with the B<iupcd> library that it is
available in the IUP package.

=head2 Resizing the IUP Canvas

When a IupCanvas is resized the CD canvas must be notified of the size
change. To do that simply call B<cdCanvasActivate> in the RESIZE_CB
callback.

=cut