=head1 Overview

CD is a platform-independent graphics library. Its drivers are
implemented in several platforms, some use portable code, others use
native graphics libraries, such as Microsoft Windows (GDI and GDI+) and
X-Windows (XLIB).

The library contains functions to support both vector and image
applications, and the visualization surface can be either a canvas or a
more abstract surface, such as Clipboard, Metafile, PS, and so on.

Furthermore, the list of parameters of the CD primitive functions
contains only the geometrical descriptions of the objects (line,
circle, text, etc.). Where these objects should appear and what is the
their color, thickness, etc. are defined as current state variables
stored in the visualization surfaces. That is, the library is
visualization-surface oriented, meaning that all attributes are stored
in each visualization surface.

CD is free software, can be used for public and commercial
applications.

=head1 Availability

The library is available for several B<compilers>:

=over

=item * GCC and CC, in the UNIX environment

=item * Visual C++, Borland C++, Watcom C++ and GCC (Cygwin and MingW),
in the Windows environment

=back

The library is available for several B<operating systems>:

=over

=item * UNIX (SunOS, IRIX, AIX, FreeBSD and Linux)

=item * Microsoft Windows NT/2K/XP

=back

=head1 X<Suport>Support

The official support mechanism is by e-mail, using
L<B<cd>|mailto:cd@tecgraf.puc-rio.br?subject=[CD]>L<B<@tecgraf.puc-rio.br>|mailto:cd@tecgraf.puc-rio.br?subject=[CD]>.
Before sending your message:

=over

=item * Check if the reported behavior is not described in the user
guide.

=item * Check if the reported behavior is not described in the specific
driver characteristics.

=item * Check the History to see if your version is updated.

=item * Check the To Do list to see if your problem has already been
reported.

=back

After all of the above have been checked, report the problem, including
in your message: B<function, element, driver, platform, and compiler.>

We host the B<CD> support features at B<SourceForge>: L<
http:E<47>E<47>sourceforge.netE<47>projectsE<47>canvasdrawE<47>|http://sourceforge.net/projects/canvasdraw/>.
It provides us Mailing List, CVS Repository and Downloads.

The discussion list is available at: L<
http:E<47>E<47>lists.sourceforge.netE<47>listsE<47>listinfoE<47>canvasdraw-users|http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/canvasdraw-users>.

Source code, pre-compiled binaries and documentation can be downloaded
at:
L<http:E<47>E<47>sourceforge.netE<47>projectE<47>showfiles.php?group_id=241317|http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=241317>.

The CVS can be browsed at: L<
http:E<47>E<47>canvasdraw.cvs.sourceforge.netE<47>canvasdrawE<47>|http://canvasdraw.cvs.sourceforge.net/canvasdraw/>.

If you want us to develop a specific feature for the library, Tecgraf
is available for partnerships and cooperation.

Lua documentation and resources can be found at
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.lua.orgE<47>|http://www.lua.org/>.

=head1 X<Acknowledgments>Credits

This work was developed at Tecgraf by means of the partnership with
PETROBRAS/CENPES.

Library Authors:

=over

=item * Marcelo Gattass

=item * Luiz Henrique de Figueiredo

=item * Luiz Fernando Martha

=item * Antonio Scuri

=back

Thanks to the people that worked and contributed to the library:

=over

=item * Alexandre Ferreira

=item * Andr Derraik

=item * Camilo Freire

=item * Carlos Augusto Mendes

=item * Carlos Cassino

=item * Carlos Henrique Levy

=item * Carolina Alfaro

=item * Danilo Tuler

=item * Diego Fernandes Nehab

=item * Erick de Moura Ferreira

=item * Marcelo Cohen

=item * Milton Jonathan

=item * Pedro Miller

=item * Rafael Rieder

=item * Renato Borges

=item * Vinicius da Silva Almendra

=back

We also thank the developers of the
L<FreeType|http://www.freetype.org/>, L<FTGL|drv/ftgl.sourceforge.net>,
L<PDFlib|http://www.pdflib.com/>, L<libJPEG|http://www.ijg.org/> and
L<Mesa|http://www.ssec.wisc.edu/~brianp/Mesa.html> libraries, for
making the source code available, which helped us improve our
implementation of the Simulation driver and of the X-Windows driver.
Thanks to Alan Richardson for the XVertex rotines. Thanks to Lode
Vandevenne for the LodePNG rotines used in the SVG driver. Thanks to
Jason Perkins for the L<Premake|http://premake.sourceforge.net/> tool.

The CD distribution includes the FreeType library, this is a third
party library not developed at Tecgraf. But its license is also free
and have the same freedom as the L<Tecgraf Library
License|copyright.html>. You can read the Free Type license and
copyright in the file L<freetype.txt|freetype.txt>. FreeType is
copyright David Turner, Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg.

Mesa X-Windows utilities source code copyright Brian Paul. libJPEG
quantization source code copyright Thomas G. Lane. XVertex routines
source code copyright Alan Richardson.

Thanks for the L<SourceForge|http://sourceforge.net/> for hosting the
support features. Thanks for the L< LuaForge|http://luaforge.net/> team
for previously hosting the support features for many years.

CD is registered at the National Institute of Intellectual Property in
Brazil (INPI) under the number 07571-1, and so it is protected against
illegal use. See the L<Tecgraf Library License|copyright.html> for
further usage information and Copyright.

=head1 X<About>Documentation

This library is available at L<
http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>cd|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/cd>.

The full documentation can be downloaded from the L< Download
Files|download.html>. The documentation is also available in Adobe
Acrobat and Windows HTML Help formats.

The HTML navigation uses the WebBook tool, available at L<
http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>webbook|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/webbook>.

=cut