=head2 To Do

=head2 CD

=over

=item * libEMF in UNIX.

=back

=head2 MAC

=over

=item * Build a native Mac OS X driver using Quartz 2D.

=item * Macintosh Picture (PICT) file.

=back

=head2 X-WIN

=over

=item * Xp: X Printer Extension driver

=item * XShm: Double Buffering and MIT-Shared Memory extensions for
server images ?

=item * XIE: X Imaging Extensions ?

=item * Shape Extension and XShapeCombineMask to implement "WINDOWRGN"
attribute (non rectangular windows from regions)

=back

=head2 OpenGL

=over

=item * Use textures to improve image drawing with transformation and
patter+stipple support.

=item * Use tesselation to support fillmode and non convex polygons.

=back

=head2 Simulation

=over

=item * Implement line styles, line cap and line join for line with
E<gt> 1.

=back

=head2 PS

=over

=item * Allow functions B<cdPutImageMap...> to be implemented using
I<indexed color space>.

=item * Check the possibility of B<cdHatch> and B<cdStipple>, which are
always opaque, having transparency, using I<shading >from PS Version 3
or I<mask images>. Same for B<cdPutImageRGBA>.

=back

----

=head1 Not likely to be updated anymore, although they are still
supported.

=head2 DXF

=over

=item * Implement Arch and Sector functions as DXF primitives, and not
as polygons. Update all other primitives according to the new DXF
manual, as there are several limitations in the current implementation.

=back

=head2 CGM

=over

=item * Make B<cdPlay> treat the possibility of xmax and ymax being 0.

=item * Check the possibility of implementing function
B<cdTextOrientation>.

=item * Implement World Coordinate functions directly in the driver.

=item * Correct the B<cdPlay> function, which is generating several
extra lines.

=item * Correct the B<cdPlay> function, which should not preserve the
aspect ratio.

=item * Allow B<cdPutImageRGBA> to be partially implemented using I<
transparent cell color>.

=back

=head2 DGN

=over

=item * Improve the driver using the DGNlib third party library.

=item * Implement the interior style attributes: I<hatch>, I<stipple>
andI< pattern>. They depend on the new DGN specification, which we do
not have yet.

=item * Check the possibility of implementing functions
B<cdTextOrientation> and B<cdRect>.

=item * Correct function B<cdKillCanvas>, which generates "I<assertion
failed>" when the library is used with debug information and the Seed
file is not included.

=back

=cut