=for comment based on iup-3.9 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iuplink.html

[% h.name %]

[% n.iuplink %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a label that displays an underlined clickable text. It is derived from L<IUP::Label|IUP::Label>.

=begin HTML

[% html.iuplink %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $link = IUP::Link->new( TITLE=>"Clickable text", URL=>'http://server.com/path/file.html' );

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

Inherits all attributes of the L<IUP::Label|IUP::Label>, but redefines a few attributes.

=over

=item L<FGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/FGCOLOR>

Text color. Default: the global attribute LINKFGCOLOR.

=item B<URL>

URL Address or a special values "NO" (= not clickable).

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

Inherits all callbacks of the L<IUP::Label|IUP::Label>.

=over

=item * L<ACTION|[%m.cb%]/ACTION>

Action generated when the link is activated.

[%h.at_handler%]

 sub action_handler {
   my ($self, $url) = @_;
   #...
 }


B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::Link) that activated the event

B<$url:> the destination address of the link

B<Returns:> IUP_CLOSE will be processed. If returns IUP_DEFAULT or it is
not defined, the L<Help|[%m.elem%]/"Help()"> function will be called.

=back 
  
[% h.notes %]

When the cursor is over the text, it is changed to the HAND cursor.

If the callback is not defined the L<Help|[%m.elem%]/"Help()"> function is called with
the given URL.

The L<IUP::Label|IUP::Label> callbacks BUTTON_CB, ENTERWINDOW_CB and LEAVEWINDOW_CB
are used internally.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iuplink %]
The element B<IUP::Link> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iuplink %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::Label|IUP::Label>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iuplink.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iuplink.html>
[%END%] 

=cut