[% h.name %]

[% n.iupcolordlg %]

[% h.desc %] 

Creates the Color Dialog element. It is a predefined dialog for
selecting a color.

There are 3 versions of the dialog. One for Windows only, one for GTK
only and one for all systems, but it is based on the L<IUP::ColorBrowser|IUP::ColorBrowser>
control that depends on the CD library.

The Windows and GTK dialogs can be shown only with the L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>
function. The L<IUP::ColorBrowser|IUP::ColorBrowser> based dialog is a L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog> that
can be shown as any regular B< IUP::Dialog>.

B<IMPORTANT: >The B< IUP::ColorBrowser> based dialog is included in the
L<Controls Library|../iupcontrols.html>. When the Controls Library is
initialized the Windows and GTK dialogs are not available anymore, i.e.
before the Controls Library initialization only the Windows and GTK
dialogs are available, after only the L<IUP::ColorBrowser|IUP::ColorBrowser> based dialog
is available.

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $colordlg = IUP::ColorDlg->new(void);
 iup.colordlg{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 colordlg() [in LED]

[% txt.new_attr %]

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * B<ALPHA> [ColorBrowser and GTK only]

if defined it will enable an
alpha selection additional controls with its initial value. If the user
pressed the Ok button contains the returned value. Default: no defined,
or 255 if SHOWALPHA=YES.

=item * B<COLORTABLE>

list of colors separated by ";". In GTK and in the
ColorBrowser based accepts 20 values and if not present the palette
will not be visible. In Windows accepts 16 values and will be always
visible, even if the colors are not defined (in this case are
initialized with black). If a color is not specified then the default
color is used. You can skip colors using ";;".

=item * L<PARENTDIALOG|[%m.at%]/PARENTDIALOG> (creation only)

Name
of a dialog to be used as parent. This dialog will be always in front
of the parent dialog.

=item * B<SHOWALPHA> [ColorBrowser and GTK only]

if enabled will display the
alpha selection controls, regardless if ALPHA is defined for the
initial value or not.

=item * B<SHOW>B<COLORTABLE>

if enabled will display the color table,
regardless if B<COLORTABLE> is defined or not. The default colors in
the color table are different in GTK and in the ColorBrowser based
dialog. In Windows the default colors are all black.

=item * B<SHOWHEX> [ColorBrowser only]

if enabled will display the Hexadecimal
notation of the color.

=item * B<SHOWHELP> [ColorBrowser only]

if enabled will display the Help
button. In GTK and Windows, the Help button is shown only if the
HELP_CB callback is defined.

=item * B<STATUS> (read-only)

defined to "1" if the user pressed the Ok
button, NULL if pressed the Cancel button.

=item * L<TITLE|[%m.at%]/TITLE>

Dialog title.

=item * B<VALUE>

The color value in RGB coordinates and optionally alpha. It
is used as the initial value and contains the selected value if the
user pressed the Ok button. Format: "R G B" or "R G B A". Each
component range from 0 to 255.

=item * B<VALUEHSI> [ColorBrowser only]

The color value in HSI coordinates. It
is used as the initial value and contains the selected value if the
user pressed the Ok button. Format: "H S I". Each component range from
0-359, 0-100 and 0-100 respectively.

=item * B<VALUEHEX> [ColorBrowser only]

The color value in RGB Hexadecimal
notation. It is used as the initial value and contains the selected
value if the user pressed the Ok button. Format: "#RRGGBB". Each
component range from 0-255, but in hexadecimal notation.

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over

=item * L<HELP_CB|[%m.cb%]/HELP_CB>

Action generated when the Help
button is pressed.

=back

[% h.notes %]

The GTK and Windows dialogs are native pre-defined dialogs that are not
altered by L<IUP::SetLanguage|IUP::SetLanguage>. To show the dialog, use function
L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>. In Lua, use the B<popup> function. The dialog is mapped
only inside L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>, L<IUP::Map|IUP::Map> does nothing.

[% h.examples %]

 Ihandle* dlg = IUP::ColorDlg();
 
 IUP::SetAttribute(dlg, "VALUE", "128 0 255");
 IUP::SetAttribute(dlg, "ALPHA", "142");
 IUP::SetAttribute(dlg, "SHOWHEX", "YES");
 IUP::SetAttribute(dlg, "SHOWCOLORTABLE", "YES");
 IUP::SetAttribute(dlg, "TITLE", "IUP::ColorDlg Test");
 IUP::SetCallback(dlg, "HELP_CB", (Icallback)help_cb);
 
 IUP::Popup(dlg, IUP_CURRENT, IUP_CURRENT);
 
 if (IUP::GetInt(dlg, "STATUS"))
 {
   printf("OK\n");
   printf("  COLOR(%s)\n", IUP::GetAttribute(dlg, "COLOR"));
   printf("  COLORTABLE(%s)\n", IUP::GetAttribute(dlg, "COLORTABLE"));
 }
 else
   printf("CANCEL\n");
 
 IUP::Destroy(dlg);  

Windows XP

[IMAGE]

GTK/GNOME

[IMAGE]

ColorBrowser Based

[IMAGE]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::MessageDlg|IUP::MessageDlg>, L<IUP::FileDlg|IUP::FileDlg>,
L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>

=cut