=for comment based on iup-3.5

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupmessagedlg %]

[% h.desc %] 

Creates the Message Dialog element. It is a predefined dialog for
displaying a message. The dialog can be shown with the IUP::Popup
function only.

=begin HTML

[% html.iupmessagedlg %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $messagedlg = IUP::MessageDlg->new( BUTTONS=>"OKCANCEL" );

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * B<BUTTONDEFAULT>

Number of the default button. Can be "1" or "2". "2"
is valid only for "OKCANCEL" and "YESNO" button configurations.
Default: "1".

=item * B<BUTTONRESPONSE>

Number of the pressed button. Can be "1" or "2".
Default: "1".

=item * B<BUTTONS>

Buttons configuration. Can have values: "OK", "OKCANCEL" or
"YESNO". Default: "OK". Additionally the "Help" button is displayed if
the HELP_CB callback is defined.

=item * B<DIALOGTYPE>

Type of dialog defines which icon will be displayed
besides the message text. Can have values: "MESSAGE" (No Icon), "ERROR"
(Stop-sign), "WARNING" (Exclamation-point), "QUESTION" (Question-mark)
or "INFORMATION" (Letter "i"). Default: "MESSAGE".

=item * L<PARENTDIALOG|[%m.at%]/PARENTDIALOG> (creation only)

Name of a dialog to be used as parent. This dialog will be always in front
of the parent dialog. If not defined in Motif the dialog could not be
modal.

=item * L<TITLE|[%m.at%]/TITLE>

Dialog title.

=item * B<VALUE>

Message text.

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over

=item * L<HELP_CB|[%m.cb%]/HELP_CB>

Action generated when the Help button is pressed.

=back

[% h.notes %]

The L<IUP::MessageDlg|IUP::MessageDlg> is a native pre-defined dialog not altered by
L<IUP::SetLanguage|IUP::SetLanguage>.

To show the dialog, use function L<Popup|[%m.elem%]/"Popup()">.
function.

The dialog is mapped only inside L<Popup|[%m.elem%]/"Popup()">, L<Map|[%m.elem%]/"Map()"> does nothing.

In Windows the position (x,y) used in L<Popup|[%m.elem%]/"Popup()"> is ignored and the
dialog is always centered on screen.

The L<Message|IUP/"Message()"> function simply creates and popup a L<IUP::MessageDlg|IUP::MessageDlg>.

In Windows each different dialog type is always associated with a different beep sound.

In Windows, if PARENTDIALOG is specified then it will be modal relative only to its parent.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupmessagedlg %]
The element B<IUP::MessageDlg> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupmessagedlg %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<Message|IUP/"Message()">, L<GetParam|IUP/"GetParam()">,
L<ListDialog|IUP/"ListDialog>()">, L<Alarm|IUP/"Alarm()">,
L<GetFile|IUP/"GetFile()">, L<Popup|[%m.elem%]/"Popup()">

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupmessagedlg.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupmessagedlg.html>
[%END%] 

=cut