=for comment based on iup-3.2 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupcbox.html

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupcbox %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a void container for position elements in absolute coordinates.
It is a B<concrete> layout container.

It does not have a native representation.

The L<IUP::Cbox|IUP::Cbox> is equivalent of a L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox> or L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> where all
the children have the L<FLOATING|[%m.at%]/FLOATING> attribute
set to YES, but children must use CX and CY attributes instead of the
POSITION attribute.

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 #standard way
 my $cbox = IUP::Cbox->new( child=>[$elem1, $elem2], ANYATTRIBUTE=>'any value' );
 
 #or with just a single child
 my $cbox = IUP::Cbox->new( child=>$elem, ANYATTRIBUTE=>'any value' );
 
 #or with just 1 parameter (arrayref)
 my $cbox = IUP::Cbox->new( [$elem1, $elem2] );
 
 #or with just 1 parameter (reference to child elements)
 my $cbox = IUP::Cbox->new( $elem );

=over 

B<child:> (named parameter) List of the references to elements (or just a single element) that 
will be placed in the box. It can be ommited (see note below).

B<Returns:> The reference to the created element, or C<udnef> if an error
occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

NOTE: IUP::Cbox can be created with no elements (no child params passed to C<new()> constructor)
and be dynamic filled later using
L<C<< $element->Append() >>|[%m.elem%]/"Append()"> and/or
L<C<< $element->Insert() >>|[%m.elem%]/"Insert()"> methods.

=back

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item B<CX, CY>

I<(non inheritable) B<(at children only)>>

Position in pixels
of the child relative to the top-left corner of the box. Must be set
for each child inside the box.

=item L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND>

I<(non inheritable)>

The default value is "YES".

=item L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE> /
L<RASTERSIZE|[%m.at%]/RASTERSIZE> (non inheritable)

Must be
defined for each child. If not defined for the box, then it will be the
bounding box that includes all children in their position.

=item B<WID>

I<(read-only)>

returns -1 if mapped.

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|[%m.at%]/CLIENTSIZE>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|[%m.at%]/CLIENTOFFSET>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>

=back

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupcbox %]
The element B<IUP::Cbox> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupcbox %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>, L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupcbox.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupcbox.html>
[%END%] 

=cut