=for comment based on iup-3.5

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupsbox %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a void container that allows its child to be resized. Allows
expanding and contracting the child B<size> in one direction.

It does not have a native representation but it contains also a
L<IUP::Canvas|IUP::Canvas> to implement the bar handler. XXX-check-this

=begin HTML

[% html.iupsbox %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 #standard way
 my $sbox = IUP::Sbox->new( child=>[$elem1, $elem2], ANYATTRIBUTE=>'XXX' );
 
 #or with just a single child
 my $sbox = IUP::Sbox->new( child=>$elem, ANYATTRIBUTE=>'XXX' );
 
 #or with just 1 parameter (arrayref)
 my $sbox = IUP::Sbox->new( [$elem1, $elem2] );
 
 #or with just 1 parameter (reference to child elements)
 my $sbox = IUP::Sbox->new( $elem ); 
 

B<child:> (named parameter) List of the references to elements (or just a single element) that 
will receive the box. It can be C<undef> or ommited. 

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * B<COLOR>

Changes the color of the bar handler. The value should be
given in "R G B" color style. Default: "192 192 192".

=item * B<DIRECTION> (creation only)

Indicates the direction of the resize and
the position of the bar handler. Possible values are "NORTH", "SOUTH"
(vertical direction), "EAST" or "WEST" (horizontal direction). Default:
"EAST".

=item * L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND> (non inheritable)

It will expand automatically only in the direction opposite to the handler.

=item * B<WID> (read-only)

Returns -1 if mapped.

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>, L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE>,
L<RASTERSIZE|[%m.at%]/RASTERSIZE>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|[%m.at%]/CLIENTSIZE>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|[%m.at%]/CLIENTOFFSET>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>

=back

[% h.notes %]

The controls that you want to be resized must have the EXPAND=YES
attribute set. The control inside the sbox will not be resized with a
size lesser than its B<Natural> size. See the L<Layout
Guide|xxx.html> for mode details on sizes.

The L<IUP::Canvas|IUP::Canvas> bar handler is always the first child of the sbox. It
can be obtained using L<GetChild|[%m.elem%]/"GetChild()"> or L<GetNextChild|[%m.elem%]/"GetNextChild()">.

L<IUP::Sbox|IUP::Sbox> can be resized above the maximum size so some controls go to
outside the dialog area at right or bottom. In fact this is part of the
dynamic layout default reposition of controls inside the dialog. See
the L<IUP::Refresh|IUP::Refresh> function. The IUP layout does not have a maximum
limit only a minimum, except if you use the MAXSIZE common attribute.

The box can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<Append|[%m.elem%]/"Append()"> or L<Insert|[%m.elem%]/"Insert()">.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupsbox %]
The element B<IUP::Sbox> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupsbox %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupsbox.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupsbox.html>
[%END%] 

=cut