=for comment based on iup-3.5-XXX-UNFINISHED

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupradio %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a void container for grouping mutual exclusive toggles. Only
one of its descendent toggles will be active at a time. The toggles can
be at any composition.

It does not have a native representation.

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $radio = IUP::Radio->new(Ihandle *child);
 iup.radio{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 radio(child) [in LED]

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element. Usually it is a vbox or
an hbox containing the toggles associated to the radio. It can be NULL.

[% txt.new_attr %]

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND> (non inheritable)

The default
value is "YES".

=item * B<VALUE> (non inheritable)

name identifier of the active toggle. The
name is set by means of L< IUP::SetHandle|../func/iupsethandle.html>. In
Lua you can also use the element reference directly. When consulted if
the toggles are not mapped into the native system the return value may
be NULL or invalid.

=item * B<VALUE_HANDLE> (non inheritable)

Changes the active toggle. The value
passed must be the handle of a child contained in the radio. When
consulted if the toggles are not mapped into the native system the
return value may be NULL or invalid. 

=item * B<WID> (read-only)

returns -1 if mapped.

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|[%m.at%]/CLIENTSIZE>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|[%m.at%]/CLIENTOFFSET>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>,
L<VISIBLE|[%m.at%]/VISIBLE>

also accepted.

=back

[% h.notes %]

The radio can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IUP::Append|IUP::Append> or
L<IUP::Insert|IUP::Insert>.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupradio %]
The element B<IUP::Radio> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupradio %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupradio.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupradio.html>
[%END%] 

=cut