=pod

=head1 NAME

[% m.imglib %] - Using IUP buil-in image library

=head1 IUP MANUAL

=over

=item * L<[%m.intro%]|[%m.intro%]>

=item * L<[%m.elem%]|[%m.elem%]>

=item * L<[%m.at%]|[%m.at%]>

=item * L<[%m.cb%]|[%m.cb%]>

=item * L<[%m.keys%]|[%m.keys%]>

=item * L<[%m.dlg%]|[%m.dlg%]>

=item * [%m.imglib%] E<nbsp>E<nbsp>E<nbsp>E<nbsp>E<nbsp> B<E<lt>E<lt>E<lt> this document>

=item * L<[%m.dnd%]|[%m.dnd%]>

=back

=head1 Available Images

All built-in images from ImageLibrary are available automatically after C<use IUP>

To use/reference build-in images you have to use symbolic names like C<"IUP_LogoTecgraf"> - BEWARE: the names are strings not constants/bare words.

See - L<Using Images in Other Elements (via IMAGE Attribute)|IUP::Image/"Using Images in Other Elements (via IMAGE Attribute)">

=head2 Bitmap Group

These bitmaps are 16x16-8bpp (Motif), 16x16-32bpp (Win32) or
24x24-32bpp (GTK) pixels size images that can be used in Buttons,
usually inside toolbars. Do not set RASTERSIZE of buttons so they can
expand when switching to GTK.

=begin HTML

[%html.imglib_bitmap%]

=end HTML

=head2 Icon Group

These icons are 32x32 pixels size (or just 32 pixels height) images
that can be used in Labels, usually inside toolbars.

=begin HTML

[%html.imglib_icon%]

=end HTML

=head2 Logo Group

These logos are 48x48 pixels size (or just 48 pixels height) images
that can be used in Labels, usually inside dialogs.

=begin HTML

[%html.imglib_logo%]

=end HTML

=head2 Other

B<NOTE:> used imglib has to be built with -DIUP_IMGLIB_LARGE (which is disabled by default) to include these images. 
L<Alien::IUP> asks dusing build process for enabling 48x48 images.

Here are other images available in the IUP stock library, commonly used
by the respective systems. All images are 48x48 pixels size and 32bpp.

=begin HTML

[%html.imglib_other%]

=end HTML

=cut