=for comment based on iup-3.9 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupexpander.html

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupexpander %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a void container that can interactively show or hide its child.

It does not have a native representation, but it contains also a
L<IUP::Canvas|IUP::Canvas> to implement the bar handler.

=begin HTML

[% html.iupexpander %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 #standard way
 $mlist = IUP::Expander->new( child=>$child, ANYATTRIBUTE=>'any value' );
 #or with just 1 parameter
 $mlist = IUP::Expander->new($child);
 
B<child:> (named parameter) reference to an interface element.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item B<AUTOSHOW>

I<(non inheritable)> enables the automatic show of the child
when mouse is over the handler more than 1 second. Default: No. See
=item * L<Notes|#Notes> bellow.

=item B<BARSIZE>

I<(non inheritable)> controls the size of the bar handler.
Default: the height of a text line plus 5 pixels.

=item L<BGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/BGCOLOR>

ignored, transparent in all systems. Will use the background color of the native parent.

=item L<FGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/FGCOLOR>

Text color. Default: the global attribute DLGFGCOLOR.

=item B<BARPOSITION>

I<(creation only)> Indicates the bar handler position.
Possible values are "TOP", "BOTTOM", "LEFT" or "RIGHT". Default: "TOP".

=item L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND>

I<(non inheritable)> The default value is "YES".

=item B<STATE>

I<(non inheritable)> Show or hide the container elements.
Possible values: "OPEN" (expanded) or "CLOSE" (collapsed). Default:
OPEN. Setting this attribute will automatically change the layout of
the entire dialog so the child can be recomposed.

=item B<TITLE>

I<(non inheritable)> the title, shown in the title bar near the
expand or collapse symbol. Shown only when BARPOSITION=TOP.

=item B<WID>

I<(read-only)> returns -1 if mapped.

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * L<ACTIVE|[%m.at%]/ACTIVE>,
L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>,
L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|[%m.at%]/SCREENPOSITION>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>,
L<WID|[%m.at%]/WID>,
L<TIP|[%m.at%]/TIP>,
L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE>,
L<RASTERSIZE|[%m.at%]/RASTERSIZE>,
L<ZORDER|[%m.at%]/ZORDER>,
L<VISIBLE|[%m.at%]/VISIBLE>

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over

=item L<ACTION|[%m.cb%]/ACTION>

Action generated expander state is interactively changed. (Since iup-3.9)

[%h.at_handler%]

 sub action_handler {
   my ($self) = @_;
   #...
 }

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::Expander) that activated the event

=back 
  
[% h.notes %]

The L<IUP::Canvas|IUP::Canvas> bar handler is always the first child of the expander.
It can be obtained using L<GetChild|[%m.elem%]/"GetChild()"> or L<GetNextChild|[%m.elem%]/"GetNextChild()">.

The container can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled
using L<Append|[%m.elem%]/"Append()"> or L<Insert|[%m.elem%]/"Insert()">.

When the TITLE is defined and BARPOSITION=TOP then the expand/collapse
symbol is left aligned. In all other situations the expand/collapse symbol is centered.

When AUTOSHOW=Yes the dialog layout is NOT recalculated. The child is
shown on top of the dialog, so the other children will not move or
redraw. After the mouse is move away from the child then it is
automatically hidden. B<IMPORTANT>: this feature will ONLY work if the
child is a native container like L<IUP::Frame>, L<IUP::ScrollBar|IUP::ScrollBar> or
L<IUP::Tabs|IUP::Tabs>.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupexpander %]
The element B<IUP::Expander> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupexpander %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupexpander.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupexpander.html>
[%END%] 

=cut