=for comment based on iup-3.5-XXX-UNFINISHED

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupspin %]

[% h.desc %]

This functions will create a control set with a vertical box containing
two buttons, one with an up arrow and the other with a down arrow, to
be used to increment and decrement values.

Unlike the SPIN attribute of the L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text> element, the L<IUP::Spin|IUP::Spin>
element can NOT automatically increment the value and it is NOT
inserted inside the L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text> area.

=begin HTML

[% html.iupspin %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

L<IUP::Spin|IUP::Spin> inherits from a L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>, and contains two L<IUP::Button|IUP::Button>.

 $spin = IUP::Spin->new(void);
 iup.spin{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 spin() [in LED]

[% txt.new_attr %]

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

L<IUP::Spinbox|IUP::Spinbox> is an horizontal container that already contains a
L<IUP::Spin|IUP::Spin>.

 $spinbox = IUP::Spinbox->new(Ihandle* child);
 iup.spinbox{child: ihandle} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 spinbox(child)  [in LED]

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

B<child>: Identifier of an interface element which will receive the
spinbox around.

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over

=item * B<SPIN_CB>

Called each time the user clicks in the buttons. It will
increment 1 and decrement -1 by default. Holding the Shift key will set
a factor of 2, holding Ctrl a factor of 10, and both a factor of 100.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int inc); [in C]
 elem:spin_cb(inc: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

=back

[% h.notes %]

The spinbox can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<IUP::Append|IUP::Append> or
L<IUP::Insert|IUP::Insert>.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupspin %]
The element B<IUP::Spin> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupspin %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text>, L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>,
L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, L<IUP::Button|IUP::Button>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupspin.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupspin.html>
[%END%] 

=cut