=for comment based on iup-3.5 XXX-NOT-FINISHED

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupcolorbar %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a color palette to enable a color selection from several
samples. It can select one or two colors. The primary color is selected
with the left mouse button, and the secondary color is selected with
the right mouse button. You can double click a cell to change its color
and you can double click the preview area to switch between primary and
secondary colors.

This is an additional control that depends on the CD library. It is
included in the L<Controls Library|../iupcontrols.html>.

It inherits from L<IUP::Canvas|IUP::Canvas>.

Originally implemented by Andr Clinio.

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 Ihandle* IUP::Colorbar(void); [in C]
 iup.colorbar{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 colorbar() [in LED] 

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * B<BUFFERIZE> (non inheritable)

Disables the automatic redrawing of
the control, so many attributes can be changed without many redraws.
Default: "NO". When set to "NO" the control is redrawn.

=item * B<CELL>I<n>

Contains the color of the "n" cell. "n" can be from 0
to NUM_CELLS-1.

=item * B<NUM_CELLS> (non inheritable)

Contains the number of color cells.
Default: "16". The maximum number of colors is 256. The default colors
use the same set of L<IUP::Image|IUP::Image>.

=item * B<COUNT> (read-only) (non inheritable)

same as B<NUM_CELLS> but it
is read-only. (since 3.3)

=item * B<NUM_PARTS> (non inheritable)

Contains the number of lines or
columns. Default: "1".

=item * B<ORIENTATION:> Controls the orientation. It can be "VERTICAL" or
"HORIZONTAL". Default

"VERTICAL".

=item * B<PREVIEW_SIZE> (non inheritable)

Fixes the size of the preview
area in pixels. The default size is dynamically calculated from the
size of the control. The size is reset to the default when
SHOW_PREVIEW=NO.

=item * B<SHOW_PREVIEW:> Controls the display of the preview area. Default

"YES".

=item * B<SHOW_SECONDARY:> Controls the existence of a secondary color
selection. Default

"NO".

=item * L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE>

there is no initial size. You must
define SIZE or RASTERSIZE.

=item * B<PRIMARY_CELL> (non inheritable)

Contains the index of the primary
color. Default "0" (black).

=item * B<SECONDARY_CELL> (non inheritable)

Contains the index of the
secondary color. Default "15" (white).

=item * B<SQUARED>

Controls the aspect ratio of the color cells. Non square
cells expand equally to occupy all of the control area. Default: "YES".

=item * B<SHADOWED:> Controls the 3D effect of the color cells. Default

"YES".

=item * B<TRANSPARENCY>

Contains a color that will be not rendered in the
color palette. The color cell will have a white and gray chess pattern.
It can be used to create a palette with less colors than the number of
cells.

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * L<ACTIVE|[%m.at%]/ACTIVE>,
L<BGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/BGCOLOR>, L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|[%m.at%]/SCREENPOSITION>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>, L<WID|[%m.at%]/WID>,
L<TIP|[%m.at%]/TIP>, L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND>,
L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE>,
L<RASTERSIZE|[%m.at%]/RASTERSIZE>,
L<ZORDER|[%m.at%]/ZORDER>,
L<VISIBLE|[%m.at%]/VISIBLE>

also accepted.

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over

=item * B<CELL_CB>

called when the user double clicks a color cell to
change its value.

 char* function(Ihandle* ih, int cell); [in C]
 elem:cell_cb(cell: number) -> (ret: string) [in Lua]

=over

=item * B<ih> - identifier of the element that activated the event.

=item * B<cell:> index of the selected cell. If the user double click a preview
cell, the respective index is returned.

Returns - a new color or NULL (nil in Lua) to ignore the change. By
default nothing is changed.

=back

=item * B<EXTENDED_CB>

called when the user right click a cell with the
Shift key pressed. It is independent of the SHOW_SECONDARY attribute.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int cell);  [in C]
 elem:extended_cb(cell: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

=item * B<ih> - identifier of the element that activated the event.

=item * B<cell:> index of the selected cell.

Returns - If IUP_IGNORE the cell is not redrawn. By default the cell is
always redrawn.

=back

=item * B<SELECT_CB>

called when a color is selected. The primary color is
selected with the left mouse button, and if existent the secondary is
selected with the right mouse button.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int cell, int type);  [in C]
 elem:select_cb(cell, type: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

=item * B<ih> - identifier of the element that activated the event.

=item * B<cell> - index of the selected cell.

=item * B<type> - indicates if the user selected a primary or secondary color.
In can be: C<IUP_PRIMARY(-1)> or C<IUP_SECONDARY(-2).>

Returns: If IUP_IGNORE the selection is not accepted. By default the
selection is always accepted.

=back

=item * B<SWITCH_CB>

called when the user double clicks the preview area
outside the preview cells to switch the primary and secondary
selections. It is only called if SHOW_SECONDARY=YESB<.>

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int prim_cell, int sec_cell);  [in C]
 elem:switch_cb(prim_cell, sec_cell: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

=item * B<ih> - identifier of the element that activated the event.

=item * B<prim_cell> - index of the actual primary cell.

=item * B<sec_cell> - index of the actual secondary cell.

Returns: If IUP_IGNORE the switch is not accepted. By default the
switch is always accepted.

=back

[%txt.cb_common%]

=over

=item * L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>,
L<GETFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_getfocus_cb.html>,
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_killfocus_cb.html>,
L<ENTERWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_enterwindow_cb.html>,
L<LEAVEWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_leavewindow_cb.html>,
L<K_ANY|../call/iup_k_any.html>, L<HELP_CB|../call/iup_help_cb.html>

All common callbacks are supported.

=back

[% h.notes %]

When the control has the focus the keyboard can be used to change the
colors and activate the callbacks. Use the arrow keys to move from cell
to cell, B<Home> goes to the first cell, B<End> goes to the last cell.
B<Space> will activate the B<SELECT_CB> callback for the primary color,
B<Ctrl>+B<Space> will activate the B<SELECT_CB> callback for the
secondary color. B<Shift>+B<Space> will activate the B<EXTENTED_CB>
callback. B<Shift>+B<Enter> will activate the B< CELL_CB> callback.

[% h.examples %]

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

Creates a Colorbar for selection of two colors.

iupcolorbar.gif

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::Canvas|IUP::Canvas>, L<IUP::Image|IUP::Image>

=cut