=for comment based on iup-3.9 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/ctrl/iupgauge.html

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupgauge %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a Gauge control. Shows a percent value that can be updated to
simulate a progression. It inherits from L<IUP::Canvas|IUP::Canvas>.

It is recommended that new applications use the
L<IUP::ProgressBar|IUP::ProgressBar> control.

=begin HTML

[% html.iupgauge %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $gauge = IUP::Gauge->new( MIN=>0, MAX=>100 );

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item B<DASHED>

Changes the style of the gauge for a dashed pattern. Default is "NO".

=item L<FGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/FGCOLOR>

Controls the gauge and text color. The default is "64 96 192".

=item B<MAX>

I<(non inheritable)> Contains the maximum value. Default is "1".

=item B<MIN>

I<(non inheritable)> Contains the minimum value. Default is "0".

=item B<PADDING>

internal margin. Works just like the MARGIN attribute of
the L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> and L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox> containers, but uses a different name to
avoid inheritance problems. Default value: "0x0". 

=item B<SHOW_TEXT>

Indicates if the text inside the Gauge is to be shown or
not. If the gauge is dashed the text is never shown. Possible values:
"YES" or "NO". Default: "YES".

=item L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE>

I<(non inheritable)> The initial size is "120x14".
Set to C<undef> to allow the automatic layout use smaller values.

=item B<TEXT>

I<(non inheritable)> Contains a text to be shown inside the Gauge
when SHOW_TEXT=YES. If it is C<undef>, the percentage calculated from VALUE
will be used. If the gauge is dashed the text is never shown.

=item B<VALUE>

I<(non inheritable)> Contains a number between "MIN" and "MAX",
controlling the current position.

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * L<ACTIVE|[%m.at%]/ACTIVE>,
L<BGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/BGCOLOR>,
L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND>,
L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|[%m.at%]/SCREENPOSITION>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>,
L<WID|[%m.at%]/WID>,
L<TIP|[%m.at%]/TIP>,
L<RASTERSIZE|[%m.at%]/RASTERSIZE>,
L<ZORDER|[%m.at%]/ZORDER>,
L<VISIBLE|[%m.at%]/VISIBLE>

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

common callbacks are supported: L<MAP_CB|[%m.at%]/MAP_CB>, L<UNMAP_CB|[%m.at%]/UNMAP_CB>
  
[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupgauge %]
The element B<IUP::Gauge> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupgauge %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::Canvas|IUP::Canvas>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupgauge.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]ctrl/iupgauge.html>
[%END%] 

=cut