=for comment based on iup-3.5-XXX-UNFINISHED

[% h.name %]

[% n.iuplist %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates an interface element that displays a list of items. The list
can be visible or can be dropped down. It also can have an edit box for
text input. So it is a 4 in 1 element. In native systems the dropped
down case is called Combo Box.

=begin HTML

[% html.iuplist %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $list = IUP::List->new(const char *action);

B<action>: String with the name of the action generated when the state
of an item is changed. It can be NULL.

[% txt.new_attr %]

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * B<"1">

First item in the list.

=item * B<"2">

Second item in the list.

=item * B<"3">

Third item in the list.

=item * B<...>

B<"n">

nth item in the list.

(non inheritable) The values can be any text. Items before "1" are
ignored. Before map the first item with a NULL is considered the end of
the list and items can be set in any order. After map, there are a few
rules:

=over

=item * if "1" is set to NULL, all items are removed.

=item * if "n" is set to NULL, all items after n are removed.

=item * if "n" is between the first and the last item, the current nth
item is replaced. The effect is the same as removing the old item and
inserting a new one at the old position.

=item * if "n+1" is set then it is appended after the last item.

=item * Items after "n+1" are ignored. 

=back

=item * B<APPENDITEM> (write-only)

inserts an item after the last item.
Ignored if set before map. 

=item * B<AUTOHIDE>

scrollbars are shown only if they are necessary. Default:
"YES".

=item * B<AUTOREDRAW> [Windows] (non inheritable)

automatically redraws the
list when something has change. Set to NO to add many items to the list
without updating the display. Default: "YES". (since iup-3.3)

=item * L<BGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/BGCOLOR>

Background color of the text.
Default: the global attribute TXTBGCOLOR. In GTK does nothing when
DROPDOWN=Yes.

=item * B<CANFOCUS> (creation only) (non inheritable)

enables the focus
traversal of the control. In Windows the control will still get the
focus when clicked. Default: YES. 

=item * B<COUNT> (read-only) (non inheritable)

returns the number of items.
Before mapping it counts the number of non NULL items before the first
NULL item. 

=item * B<DRAGDROP> [Windows and GTK Only] (non inheritable)

Enable or disable
the drag&drop of files. Default: NO, but if DROPFILES_CB is defined
when the element is mapped then it will be automatically enabled.


=item * B<DROPDOWN> (creation only)

Changes the appearance of the list for the
user: only the selected item is shown beside a button with the image of
an arrow pointing down. To select another option, the user must press
this button, which displays all items in the list. Can be "YES" or
"NO". Default "NO".

=item * B<DROPEXPAND> [Windows Only]

When DROPDOWN=Yes the size of the dropped
list will expand to include the largest text. Can be "YES" or "NO".
Default: "YES".

=item * B<EDITBOX >(creation only)

Adds an edit box to the list. Can be "YES"
or "NO". Default "NO".

=item * L<FGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/FGCOLOR>

Text color. Default: the global
attribute TXTFGCOLOR.

=item * B<INSERTITEMn> (write-only)

inserts an item before the given n
position. n starts at 1. If n=COUNT+1 then it will append after the
last item. Ignored if out of bounds. Ignored if set before map. (since
3.0)

=item * B<MULTIPLE> (creation only)

Allows selecting several items
simultaneously (multiple list). Default: "NO". Only valid when
EDITBOX=NO and DROPDOWN=NO.

=item * B<REMOVEITEM> (write-only)

removes the given value. value starts at 1.
If value is NULL removes all the items. Ignored if set before map.


=item * B<SCROLLBAR> (creation only)

Associates automatic scrollbars to the
list when DROPDOWN=NO. Can be: "YES" or "NO" (none). Default: "YES".
For all systems, when SCROLLBAR=YES the natural size will always
include its size even if the native system hides the scrollbars. If
=item * B<AUTOHIDE>=YES scrollbars are shown only if they are necessary, by
default AUTOHIDE=YES. In Motif, SCROLLBAR=NO is not supported and if
EDITBOX=YES the horizontal scrollbar is never shown.

When DROPDOWN=YES the scrollbars are system dependent, and do NOT
depend on the SCROLLBAR or AUTOHIDE attributes. Usually the scrollbars
are shown if necessary. In GTK, scrollbars are never shown and all
items are always visible. In Motif, the horizontal scrollbar is never
shown. In Windows, if DROPEXPAND=YES then the horizontal scrollbar is
never shown.

B<SHOWDROPDOWN> (write-only)

opens or closes the dropdown list. Can be
"YES" or "NO". Valid only when DROPDOWN=YES. Ignored if set before map.

=item * L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE>

Size of the list. The B<Natural>
=item * B<Size> is defined by the number of elements in the list and the with
of the largest item, the default has room for 5 characters in 1 item.
In IUP 3, the B<Natural> B<Size> ignores the list contents if
VISIBLECOLUMNS or VISIBLELINES attributes are defined. The text in the
edit box is ignored when considering the list contents.

B<SORT> (creation only)

force the list to be alphabetically sorted.
When using INSERTITEMn or APPENDITEM the position will be ignored.


=item * B<TOPITEM> (write-only)

position the given item at the top of the list
or near to make it visible. Valid only when DROPDOWN=NO. 

=item * B<SPACING>

internal padding for each item. Notice that vertically the
distance between each item will be actually 2x the spacing. It also
affects the horizontal margin of the item. In Windows, the text is
aligned at the top left of the item always. Valid only when
DROPDOWN=NO. 

=item * B<VALUE> (non inheritable)

Depends on the DROPDOWN+EDITBOX
combination:

=over

=item * EDITBOX=YES: Text entered by the user.

=item * DROPDOWN=YES or MULTIPLE=NO: Integer number representing the
selected item in the list (begins at 1). It can be zero if there is no
selected item. The value can be NULL for no item selected 
(In Motif when DROPDOWN=YES there is always an item selected, except
only when the list is empty).

=item * MULTIPLE=YES: Sequence of '+' and '-' symbols indicating the
state of each item. When setting this value, the user must provide the
same amount of '+' and '-' symbols as the amount of items in the list,
otherwise the specified items will be deselected.

=back

=item * B<VISIBLE_ITEMS >[Windows and Motif Only]

Number of items that are
visible when DROPDOWN=YES is used for the dropdown list. Default: 5.

=item * B<VISIBLECOLUMNS>

Defines the number of visible columns for the
=item * B<Natural> B<Size>, this means that will act also as minimum number of
visible columns. It uses a wider character size then the one used for
the SIZE attribute so strings will fit better without the need of extra
columns. 

B<VISIBLELINES>

When DROPDOWN=NO defines the number of visible lines
for the B<Natural> B<Size>, this means that will act also as minimum
number of visible lines. 

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * B<APPEND, CARET, CARETPOS>, B<CLIPBOARD>, B<CUEBANNER,> B<FILTER,>
B<INSERT, PADDING>, B<MASK, NC, READONLY, SELECTEDTEXT, SELECTION,
SELECTIONPOS>, B<SCROLLTO>, B<SCROLLTOPOS> 

Same as the
=item * L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text> attributes, but are valid only when EDITBOX=YES
and effective only for the edit box inside the list.

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|[%m.at%]/ACTIVE>, L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>,
L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|[%m.at%]/SCREENPOSITION>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>, L<WID|[%m.at%]/WID>,
L<TIP|[%m.at%]/TIP>,
L<RASTERSIZE|[%m.at%]/RASTERSIZE>,
L<ZORDER|[%m.at%]/ZORDER>,
L<VISIBLE|[%m.at%]/VISIBLE>

also accepted.

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over

=item * L<ACTION|[%m.cb%]/ACTION>

Action generated when the state of
an item in the list is changed. Also provides information on the
changed item:

 int function (Ihandle *ih, char *text, int item, int state); [in C]elem:action(text: string, item, state: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::XXXIUP_List) that activated the event

B<$text:> Text of the changed item.

=item * B<item> - Number of the changed item starting at 1.

=item * B<state> - Equal to 1 if the option was selected or to 0 if the option
was deselected.

The state=0 is simulated internally by IUP in all systems. If you add
or remove items to/from the list and you count on the state=0 value,
then after adding/removing items set the VALUE attribute to ensure
proper state=0 value.

=back

=item * L<BUTTON_CB|[%m.cb%]/BUTTON_CB>

Action generated when any
mouse button is pressed or released inside the list. Called only when
DROPDOWN=NO. If the list has an editbox the message is called when
cursor is at the listbox only (ignored at the editbox). Use
=back

=item * L<IUP::ConvertXYToPos|IUP::ConvertXYToPos> to convert (x,y)
coordinates in item position. 

=item * B<CARET_CB>

Action generated when the caret/cursor position is
changed. Valid only when EDITBOX=YES.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int lin, int col, int pos); [in C]elem - caret_cb(lin, col, pos: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::XXXIUP_List) that activated the event

=item * B<lin, col> - line and column number (start at 1).

=item * B<pos> - 0 based character position.

For lists B<lin> is always 1, and B<pos> is always "B<col>-1".

This is the same CARET_CB callback definition as for the
=back

=item * L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text>.

=item * B<DBLCLICK_CB>

Action generated when the user double click an item.
Called only when DROPDOWN=NO. 

 int function (Ihandle *ih, int item, char *text); [in C]elem - action(item: number, text: string) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::XXXIUP_List) that activated the event

=item * B<item> - Number of the selected item starting at 1.

=item * B<text> - Text of the selected item.

=back

=item * B<DROPDOWN_CB>

Action generated when the list of a dropdown is shown
or hidden. Called only when DROPDOWN=YES. 

 int function (Ihandle *ih, int state); [in C]elem:action(state: boolean) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::XXXIUP_List) that activated the event

=item * B<state> - state of the list 1=shown, 0=hidden.

=back

=item * L<DROPFILES_CB|[%m.cb%]/DROPFILES_CB> [Windows and GTK Only]

Action generated when one or more files are dropped in the element.


=back

=item * B<EDIT_CB>

Action generated when the text in the text box is manually
changed by the user, but before its value is actually updated. Valid
only when EDITBOX=YES.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int c, char *new_value); [in C]elem:edit_cb(c: number, new_value: string) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::XXXIUP_List) that activated the event

=item * B<c> - valid alpha numeric character or 0.

=item * B<new_value> - Represents the new text value.

B<Returns:> IUP_CLOSE will be processed, but the change will be ignored.
If IUP_IGNORE, the system will ignore the new value. If B<c> is valid
and returns a valid alpha numeric character, this new character will be
used instead. The VALUE attribute can be changed only if IUP_IGNORE is
returned.

This is the same ACTION callback definition as for the
=back

=item * L<IUP::Text|IUP::Text>.

=item * L<MOTION_CB|[%m.cb%]/MOTION_CB>

Action generated when the
mouse is moved over the list. Called only when DROPDOWN=NO. If the list
has an editbox the message is called when cursor is at the listbox only
(ignored at the editbox). Use
=back

=item * L<IUP::ConvertXYToPos|IUP::ConvertXYToPos> to convert (x,y)
coordinates in item position. 

B<MULTISELECT_CB>

Action generated when the state of an item in the
multiple selection list is changed. But it is called only when the
interaction is over.

 int function (Ihandle *ih, char *value); [in C]elem - multiselect_cb(value: string) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::XXXIUP_List) that activated the event

=item * B<value> - Similar to the VALUE attribute for a multiple selection list.
Items selected are marked with '+', items deselected are marked with
'-', and non changed items are marked with an 'x'.

This callback is called only when MULTIPLE=YES. If this callback is
defined the B<ACTION> callback will not be called.

The non changed items marked with 'x' are simulated internally by IUP
in all systems. If you add or remove items to/from the list and you
count on the 'x' values, then after adding/removing items set the VALUE
attribute to ensure proper 'x' values.

=back

=item * B<VALUECHANGED_CB>

Called after the value was interactively changed by
the user. Called when the selection is changed or when the text is
edited. 

 int function(Ihandle *ih); [in C]elem:valuechanged_cb() -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

=over

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::XXXIUP_List) that activated the event

----

=back

=item * L<MAP_CB|[%m.cb%]/MAP_CB>,
L<UNMAP_CB|[%m.cb%]/UNMAP_CB>,
L<GETFOCUS_CB|[%m.cb%]/GETFOCUS_CB>,
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|[%m.cb%]/KILLFOCUS_CB>,
L<ENTERWINDOW_CB|[%m.cb%]/ENTERWINDOW_CB>,
L<LEAVEWINDOW_CB|[%m.cb%]/LEAVEWINDOW_CB>,
L<K_ANY|[%m.cb%]/K_ANY>, L<HELP_CB|[%m.cb%]/HELP_CB>

=back

[% h.notes %]

Text is always left aligned.

The L<GETFOCUS_CB|[%m.cb%]/GETFOCUS_CB> and
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|[%m.cb%]/KILLFOCUS_CB> callbacks behave
differently depending on the list configuration and on the native
system:

=over

=over

=item * If DROPDOWN=NO and EDITBOX=YES, then the list never gets the
focus, the callbacks are called only when the edit box is clicked.

=item * In Motif if DROPDOWN=YES then when the dropdown button is
clicked the list looses its focus and when the dropped list is closed
the list regain the focus, also when that happen if the list looses its
focus to another control the kill focus callback is not called.

=item * In GTK, if DROPDOWN=YES and EDITBOX=NO, both callbacks are
called only when navigating with the keyboard (tip: if you need those
callbacks with mouse navigation set EDITBOX=YES and READONLY=YES). Also
in GTK, if DROPDOWN=YES and EDITBOX=YES then when the dropdown button
is clicked the list looses its focus and it gets it back only if the
edit box is clicked.

=back

=back

In Windows, if EDITBOX=YES then the tooltips are shown only when the
cursor is near the control border or at the dropdown arrow. Also the
selection and caret attributes are not preserved if the list loses its
focus, or in other words these attributes are only useful in Windows if
the list has the focus.

B<IMPORTANT:> In Windows when DROPDOWN=Yes the vertical size is
controlled by the system, and has the height just right to include the
borders and the text. So the B<User> height from RASTERSIZE or SIZE
will be always ignored.

In GTK older than 2.12, the editbox of a dropdown will not follow the
list attributes: FONT, BGCOLOR, FGCOLOR and SPACING.

=head2 Utility Functions

These functions can be used to set and get attributes from the element:

 void  IUP::SetAttributeId(Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int id, const char* value);
 void  IUP::StoreAttributeId(Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int id, const char* value);
 char* IUP::GetAttributeId(Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int id);
 int   IUP::GetIntId(Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int id);
 float IUP::GetFloatId(Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int id);
 void  IUP::SetfAttributeId(Ihandle *ih, const char* name, int id, const char* format, ...);

They work just like the respective traditional set and get functions.
But the attribute string is complemented with the id value. For ex:

 IUP::SetAttributeId(ih, "", 3, value) == IUP::SetAttribute(ih, "3", value)
 IUP::SetAttributeId(ih, "INSERTITEM", 8, value) == IUP::SetAttribute(ih, "INSERTITEM8", value)

But these functions are faster than the traditional functions because
they do not need to parse the attribute name string and the application
does not need to concatenate the attribute name with the id.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iuplist %]
The element B<IUP::List> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iuplist %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::ListDialog|IUP::ListDialog>, L< IUP::text|iuptext.html>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iuplist.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iuplist.html>
[%END%] 

=cut