=for comment based on iup-3.5 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupfill.html

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupfill %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a Fill composition element, which dynamically occupies empty
spaces always trying to expand itself. Its parent B<must> be an
L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> or an L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>. If an EXPAND is set on at least one of the
other children of the box, then the Fill is ignored.

It does not have a native representation.

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $fill = IUP::Fill->new( SIZE=>30 );
 
B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND>

I<(non inheritable)>

Ignored. If B<User> size is not defined, then when inside a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> EXPAND is
HORIZONTAL, when inside a L<IUP::Vbox> EXPAND is VERTICAL. If B<User> size
is defined then EXPAND is NO.

=item  L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE> / L<RASTERSIZE|[%m.at%]/RASTERSIZE> (non inheritable)

Defines the width, if inside a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, or the height, if it is inside a
L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>. When consulted behaves as the standard SIZE/RASTERSIZE
attributes. The standard format "wxh" can also be used, but width will
be ignored if inside a L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox> and height will be ignored if inside
a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> (since iup-3.3).

=item B<WID>

I<(read-only)>

Returns -1 if mapped.

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>

=back

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupfill %]
The element B<IUP::Fill> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupfill %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupfill.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupfill.html>
[%END%] 

=cut