=for comment based on iup-3.5-XXX-UNFINISHED

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupfontdlg %]

[% h.desc %] 

Creates the Font Dialog element. It is a predefined dialog for
selecting a font. The dialog can be shown with the L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup> function
only.

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $fontdlg = IUP::FontDlg->new(void);
 iup.fontdlg{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 fontdlg() [in LED]

[% txt.new_attr %]

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * B<PREVIEWTEXT> [GTK and Motif only]

the text shown in the preview
area. If not defined the system will provide a default text.

=item * B<COLOR> [Windows Only]

The initial color value and the returned
selected value if the user pressed the Ok button. In Windows the Choose
Font dialog allows the user to select a color from a pre-defined list
of colors.

=item * L<PARENTDIALOG|[%m.at%]/PARENTDIALOG> (creation only)

Name
of a dialog to be used as parent. This dialog will be always in front
of the parent dialog.

=item * B<STATUS> (read-only)

defined to "1" if the user pressed the Ok
button, NULL if pressed the Cancel button.

=item * L<TITLE|[%m.at%]/TITLE>

Dialog title.

=item * B<VALUE>

The initial font value and the returned selected value if the
user pressed the Ok button. Has the same format of the
L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT> attribute.

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over

=item * L<HELP_CB|[%m.cb%]/HELP_CB>

Action generated when the Help
button is pressed.

=back

[% h.notes %]

The L<IUP::FontDlg|IUP::FontDlg> is a native pre-defined dialog not altered by
L<IUP::SetLanguage|IUP::SetLanguage>.

To show the dialog, use function L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>. In Lua, use the B<popup>
function.

The dialog is mapped only inside L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>, L<IUP::Map|IUP::Map> does nothing.

In Windows, the dialog will be modal relative only to its parent or to
the active dialog.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupfontdlg %]
The element B<IUP::FontDlg> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupfontdlg %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::MessageDlg|IUP::MessageDlg>, L<IUP::FileDlg|IUP::FileDlg>,
L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupfontdlg.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupfontdlg.html>
[%END%] 

=cut