[% h.name %]

[% n.iuplayoutdialog %]

[% h.desc %] (since 3.3)

Creates a Layout Dialog. It is a predefined dialog to visually edit the
layout of another dialog in run time. It is a standard L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog>
constructed with other IUP elements. The dialog can be shown with any
of the show functions L<IUP::Show|IUP::Show>, L<IUP::ShowXY|IUP::ShowXY> or L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>.

Any existent dialog can be selected. It does not need to be mapped on
the native system nor visible. It could have been created in C, LED or
Lua.

The layout dialog is composed by two areas: one showing the given
dialog children hierarchy tree, and one displaying its layout.

This is a dialog intended for developers, so they can see and inspect
their dialogs in other ways.

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 Ihandle* IUP::LayoutDialog(Ihandle* dialog); [in C]
 iup.LayoutDialog(dialog: ihandle) -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 [NOT available in LED]

B<dialog>: identifier of the dialog to display the layout. Can be NULL.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * B<DESTROYWHENCLOSED>

The dialog will be automatically destroyed when
closed. Default: Yes.

Check the L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog> attributes.

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over


Check the L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog> callbacks.

=back

[% h.notes %]

=head2 Menu

 Dialog
 	New  - creates a new empty dialog, it will be destroyed when the layout is destroyed.
 	Load - loads an existent dialog from the application.
 	Load Visible - lists only visible dialogs from the application to be loaded.
 	Reload - reloads the current dialog into the Layout Dialog.
 	Export - exports the current dialog to a text file in the specified language.
 		C
 		LED
 		Lua
 	Refresh - recalculates the dialog layout of the current dialog (IUP::Refresh).
 	Redraw - send a redraw to the current dialog (IUP::Redraw).
 	Show - shows the current dialog (IUP::Show) 
 	Hide - hides the current dialog (IUP::Hide) 
 	Close - hides the Layout Dialog, optionally self destroy according to DESTROYWHENCLOSED.
 Layout
 	Hierarchy - shows or hides the layout hierarchy tree at left.
 	Update - redraw the layout.
 	Auto Update - periodically redraw the layout.
 	Show Hidden - show hidden elements in the layout.
 	Opacity - controls the Layout Dialog opacity so you can composite it on top of the selected dialog.

Use B<Reload> when the dialog has been changed and the layout was
modified by the application. Use B<Update> when attributes of the
dialog were changed by the application and the layout needs to be
redrawn.

The B<Export> items will export only the dialog and its children.
Associated elements such as menus and images will not be exported. The
selected file will be overwritten if existent.

=head2 Hierarchy Tree

Each element inside the dialog is mapped to a node in the tree, and
elements that are containers are branches in the tree. The node title
shows the element class name, its TITLE attribute when available and
its name when available. The selected node is synced with the selected
element in the layout display in both ways. Using the right click over
a node shows a context menu.

You can drag and drop items in the tree. But there are some
restrictions according to each container possibilities. Some containers
have internal children that are displayed but can not be changed.

=head2 Layout Display

The layout of an element is drawn with its Current size using its FONT,
TITLE, BGCOLOR and FGCOLOR if any. But inheritance is not used
intentionally to emphasize the element attributes. Only the first line
(limited to 50 characters in the tree) is used from the element TITLE.
Images are also used, but position of text and images are not the same
as in the native control. This decoration is there simply to help
locating the elements in the layout.

Containers that are not native elements are shown with dashed lines,
other elements are shown with solid lines. When a red line is displayed
along with a border of an element it means that element is maximizing
its parent size, i.e. its B<Current> size is equal to its B<Natural>
size and both are equal to the parent B<Client> size. Usually this is
the element determining the natural size of the container at least in
the direction marked with red.

You can NOT drag and drop elements in the layout. Using the right click
over an element shows a context menu, the same as in a tree node. When
an element in the layout is double clicked and the actual element is
visible, then the actual element will blink twice.

=head2 Context Menu

 Properties - shows the properties dialog for the selected element.
 Map - maps the selected element to the native system.
 Unmap - unmaps the selected element from the native system. Its attribute are saved before unmapping.
 Copy - copy the selected element to an internal clipboard. Its attributes are also copied.
 Paste Child - paste the copied element as the first child of the selected container. 
 Paste Brother - paste the copied element as brother of the selected element.
 Add Child - adds a new element as the first child of the selected container. The new element is not mapped.
 Add Brother - adds a new element as brother of the selected element. The new element is not mapped.
 Remove - removes the selected element. 

=head2 Properties

The properties dialog allows the inspection and change of the elements
attributes. It contains 3 Tab sections: one for the registered
attributes of the element, one for custom attributes set at the hash
table, and one for the callbacks. The callbacks are just for
inspection, and custom attribute should be handled carefully because
they may be not strings. Registered attributes values are shown in red
when they were changed by the application. It uses the
L<IUP::ElementPropertiesDialog|IUP::ElementPropertiesDialog>.

[% h.examples %]

This will create an empty layout with a new dialog.

 IUP::Show(IUP::LayoutDialog(NULL));   [in C]
 
 iup.Show(iup.LayoutDialog(nil))    [in Lua]

The following dialog layout is displayed next.

[IMAGE]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog>, L< IUP::Show|../func/iupshow.html>,
L<IUP::ShowXY|IUP::ShowXY>, L<IUP::Popup|IUP::Popup>

=cut