=for comment based on iup-3.5

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupelementpropertiesdialog %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates an Element Properties Dialog. It is a predefined dialog to edit
the properties of an element in run time. It is a standard L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog>
constructed with other IUP elements. The dialog can be shown with any
of the show functions L<Show|[%m.elem%]/"Show()">, L<ShowXY|[%m.elem%]/"ShowXY()"> or L<Popup|[%m.elem%]/"Popup()">.

Any existent element can be edited. It does not need to be mapped on
the native system nor visible.

This is a dialog intended for developers, so they can see and inspect
their elements in other ways.

It contains 3 Tab sections: one for the registered attributes of the
element, one for custom attributes set at the hash table, and one for
the callbacks. The callbacks are just for inspection, and custom
attribute should be handled carefully because they may be not strings.
Registered attributes values are shown in red when they were changed by
the application.

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $propdialog = IUP::ElementPropertiesDialog( $element );
 #or
 $propdialog = IUP::ElementPropertiesDialog( element=>$element );

B<$element>: identifier of the element to display the properties. Not optional.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

Check the L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog/"ATTRIBUTES"> attributes.

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

Check the L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog/"CALLBACKS"> callbacks.

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupelementpropertiesdialog %]
The element B<IUP::ElementPropertiesDialog> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupelementpropertiesdialog %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog>, L<Show|[%m.elem%]/"Show()">,
L<ShowXY|[%m.elem%]/"ShowXY()">, L<Popup|[%m.elem%]/"Popup()">,
L<IUP::LayoutDialog|IUP::LayoutDialog>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupelementpropdialog.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]dlg/iupelementpropdialog.html>
[%END%] 

=cut