=for comment based on iup-3.9 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/dlg/iupprogressdlg.html

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupprogressdlg %]

[% h.desc %]

Creates a progress dialog element. It is a predefined dialog for
displaying the progress of an operation. The dialog is meant to be
shown with the show functions L<Popup|[%m.elem%]/"Popup()"> or L<ShowXY|[%m.elem%]/"ShowXY()">.

=begin HTML

[% html.iupprogressdlg %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $progressdlg = IUP::ProgressDlg->new( TITLE=>"Hello" );

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% txt.new_attr %]

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

Supports all the L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog> attributes. But
some attributes where changed to configure the dialog. We recommend
changing only the following attributes:

=over

=item L<TITLE|[%m.at%]/TITLE>

I<(non inheritable)> DialogE<rsquo>s title. 
If not set the title bar will not be displayed
and the dialog will occupy less space on screen.

=item L<VISIBLE|[%m.at%]/VISIBLE>

Simply call L<Show|[%m.elem%]/"Show()"> or L<Hide|[%m.elem%]/"Hide()"> for the dialog.

=item L<PARENTDIALOG|[%m.at%]/PARENTDIALOG>

I<(creation only)> Name of a dialog to be used as parent.
This dialog will be always in front of the parent dialog.

=item L<TITLE|[%m.at%]/TITLE>

Dialog title.

=back

New attributes (all non inheritable):

=over

=item B<COUNT>

current count of iterations.

=item B<INC>

I<(write-only)> increment the current count by the given amount.
If set to C<undef> will increment +1.

=item B<PERCENT>

current percent of iterations.

=item B<TOTALCOUNT>

total number of iterations.

=item B<STATE>

describe the state of the iteration. Can be: 'IDLE',
'PROCESSING', 'UNDEFINED' or 'ABORTED'. Default is 'IDLE'. When INC, COUNT or
PERCENT are set the state is changed to 'PROCESSING'. If the user pressed
the Cancel button the state is changed to 'ABORTED', but check the
CANCEL_CB callback for other options. If the state is set to 'UNDEFINED'
by the application the progress bar will display an undefined state
animation (same as setting MARQUEE=Yes in L<IUP::ProgressBar|IUP::ProgressBar>),
to resume processing set the state attribute to 'PROCESSING'.

=item B<DESCRIPTION>

text description to be shown at the dialog.

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

Supports all the L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog> callbacks + following new callbacks:

=over

=item B<CANCEL_CB>

Action generated when the user clicked on the Cancel button.

[%h.at_handler%]

 sub cancel_cb_handler {
   my ($self) = @_;
   #...
 }

B<$self:> reference to the element (IUP::ProgressDlg) that activated the event

B<Returns:> if different from IUP_CONTINUE then STATE will be changed to
ABORTED, same behavior as if the callback does not exist.

=back

[% h.notes %]

The L<IUP::ProgressDlg|IUP::ProgressDlg> will display the iteration state using a
L<IUP::ProgressBar|IUP::ProgressBar> control.

The dialog is B<not> automatically closed, the application must do that
manually inside the CANCEL_CB callback or inside your processing loop
by checking the STATE attribute.
  
[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupprogressdlg %]
The element B<IUP::ProgressDlg> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupprogressdlg %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[% h.see %]

L<IUP::ProgressBar|IUP::ProgressBar>, L<IUP::Dialog|IUP::Dialog>

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupprogressdlg.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]dlg/iupprogressdlg.html>
[%END%] 

=cut