=for comment based on iup-3.5-XXX-UNFINISHED

[% h.name %]

[% n.iupprogressbar %]

[% h.desc %] 

Creates a progress bar control. Shows a percent value that can be
updated to simulate a progression.

=begin HTML

[% html.iupprogressbar %]

=end HTML

[% h.usage %]

[% h.create %]

 $progressbar = IUP::ProgressBar->new(void);
 iup.progressbar{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 progressbar() [in LED] 

[% txt.new_attr %]

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

[% h.at %]

[%txt.at_intro%]

=over

=item * L<BGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/BGCOLOR> [Windows Classic and Motif only]

controls the background color. Default: the global attribute
DLGBGCOLOR.

=item * B<DASHED> (creation only in Windows) [Windows and GTK only]

Changes
the style of the progress bar for a dashed pattern. Default is "NO".

=item * L<FGCOLOR|[%m.at%]/FGCOLOR> [Windows Classic and Motif only]

Controls the bar color. Default: the global attribute DLGFGCOLOR.

=item * B<MARQUEE> (creation)

displays an undefined state. Default: NO. You
can set the attribute after map but only to start or stop the
animation.

=item * B<MAX >(non inheritable)

Contains the maximum value. Default is "1".
The control display is not updated, must set VALUE attribute to update.

=item * B<MIN >(non inheritable)

Contains the minimum value. Default is "0".
The control display is not updated, must set VALUE attribute to update.

=item * B<ORIENTATION> (creation only)

can be "VERTICAL" or "HORIZONTAL".
Default: "HORIZONTAL". Horizontal goes from left to right, and vertical
from bottom to top.

=item * L<RASTERSIZE|[%m.at%]/RASTERSIZE>

The initial size is
defined as "200x30". Set to NULL to allow the use of smaller values in
the layout computation.

=item * B<VALUE >(non inheritable)

Contains a number between "MIN" and "MAX",
controlling the current position.

=back

[%txt.at_common%]

=over

=item * L<ACTIVE|[%m.at%]/ACTIVE>,
L<EXPAND|[%m.at%]/EXPAND>, L<FONT|[%m.at%]/FONT>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|[%m.at%]/SCREENPOSITION>,
L<POSITION|[%m.at%]/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|[%m.at%]/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|[%m.at%]/MAXSIZE>, L<WID|[%m.at%]/WID>,
L<TIP|[%m.at%]/TIP>, L<SIZE|[%m.at%]/SIZE>,
L<ZORDER|[%m.at%]/ZORDER>,
L<VISIBLE|[%m.at%]/VISIBLE>

also accepted.

=back

[% h.cb %]

[%txt.cb_intro%]

=over

=item * L<MAP_CB|[%m.cb%]/MAP_CB>,
L<UNMAP_CB|[%m.cb%]/UNMAP_CB>

=back

[% h.examples %]

[% IF examples.iupprogressbar %]
The element B<IUP::ProgressBar> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over
[%FOREACH e IN examples.iupprogressbar %]
=item * L<[%e.pl%]|[%url.examples%][%e.pl%]>[%e.desc%]
[%END%]
=back 

[%ELSE%]
Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.

[%END%]

[%IF flags.gennerate_origdoc -%]
The original doc: L<iupprogressbar.html|[%url.iuporigdoc%]elem/iupprogressbar.html>
[%END%] 

=cut