=head1 IupCells

Creates a grid widget (set of cells) that enables several
application-specific drawing, such as: chess tables, tiles editors,
degrade scales, drawable spreadsheets and so forth.

This element is mostly based on application callbacks functions that
determine the number of cells (rows and columns), their appearance and
interaction. This mechanism offers full flexibility to applications,
but requires programmers attention to avoid infinite loops inside this
functions. Using callbacks, cells can be also grouped to form major or
hierarchical elements, such as headers, footers etc. This callback
approach was intentionally chosen to allow all cells to be dynamically
and directly changed based on application's data structures. Since the
size of each cell is given by the application the size of the control
also must be given using SIZE or RASTERSIZE attributes.

This is an additional control that depends on the CD library. It is
included in the L<IupControls|../iupcontrols.html> library.

It inherits from L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>.

Originally implemented by Andr Clinio.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupCells(void); [in C]
 iup.cells{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 cells() [in LED] 

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<BOXED:> Determines if the bounding cells' regions should be drawn
with black lines. It can be "YES" or "NO". Default: "YES". If the span
attributes are used, set this attribute to "NO" to avoid grid drawing
over spanned cells.

B<BUFFERIZE:> Disables the automatic redrawing of the control, so many
attributes can be changed without many redraws. When set to "NO" the
control is redrawn. When REPAINT attribute is set, BUFFERIZE is
automatically set to "NO". Default: "NO".

B<CANVAS> (read-only) (non inheritable): Returns the internal IUP CD
canvas. This attribute should be used only in specific cases and by
experienced CD programmers.

B<CLIPPED:> Determines if, before cells drawing, each bounding region
should be clipped. This attribute should the changed in few specific
cases. It can be "YES" or "NO". Default: "YES".

B<FIRST_COL> (read-only) (non inheritable): Returns the number of the
first visible column.

B<FIRST_LINE> (read-only) (non inheritable): Returns the number of the
first visible line.

B<FULL_VISIBLE >(write-only) (non inheritable): Tries to show
completely a specific cell (considering any vertical or horizontal
header or scrollbar position) .This attribute is set by a formatted
string "%d:%d" (C syntax), where each "%d" represent the line and
column integer indexes respectively.

B<IMAGE_CANVAS> (read-only) (non inheritable): Returns the internal
image CD canvas. This attribute should be used only in specific cases
and by experienced CD programmers.

B<LIMITS>I<L:C> (read-only) (non inheritable): Returns the limits of a
given cell. Input format is "lin:col" or "%d:%d" in C. Output format is
"xmin:xmax:ymin:ymax" or "%d:%d:%d:%d" in C.

B<NON_SCROLLABLE_LINES:> Determines the number of non-scrollable lines
(vertical headers) that should always be visible despite the vertical
scrollbar position. It can be any non-negative integer value. Default:
"0"

B<NON_SCROLLABLE_COLS:> Determines the number of non-scrollable columns
(horizontal headers) that should always be visible despite the
horizontal scrollbar position. It can be any non-negative integer
value. Default: "0"

B<ORIGIN:> Sets the first visible line and column positions. This
attribute is set by a formatted string "%d:%d" (C syntax), where each
"%d" represent the line and column integer indexes respectively.

B<REPAINT>(write-only) (non inheritable): When set with any value,
provokes the control to be redrawn.

L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html> (non inheritable): there is no initial
size. You must define SIZE or RASTERSIZE.

L<SCROLLBAR|../attrib/iup_scrollbar.html> (creation only): Default:
"YES".

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>,
L<BGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_bgcolor.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|../attrib/iup_screenposition.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>, L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Callbacks

B<DRAW_CB>: called when a specific cell needs to be redrawn.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int line, int column, int xmin, int xmax, int ymin, int ymax, cdCanvas* canvas);  [in C]
 elem:draw_cb(line, column, xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax: number, canvas: cdCanvas) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<line>, B<column>: the grid position inside the control that is being
redrawn, in grid coordinates.

B<xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax>: the raster bounding box of the redrawn
cells, where the application can use CD functions to draw anything. If
the attribute IUP_CLIPPED is set (the default), all CD graphical
primitives is clipped to the bounding region.

B<canvas>: internal canvas CD used to draw the cells.

B<HEIGHT_CB>: called when the controls needs to know a (eventually
new) line height.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int line);  [in C]
 elem:height_cb(line: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<line:> the line index

Returns: an integer that specifies the desired height (in pixels).
Default is 30 pixels.

B<HSPAN_CB>: called when the control needs to know if a cell should
be horizontally spanned.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int line, int column);  [in C]
 elem:hspan_cb(line, column: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<line, column>: the line and column indexes (in grid coordinates)

Returns: an integer that specifies the desired span. Default is 1 (no
span).

B<MOUSECLICK_CB>: called when a color is selected. The primary color
is selected with the left mouse button, and if existent the secondary
is selected with the right mouse button.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int button, int pressed, int line, int column, int x, int y, char* status);  [in C]
 elem:mouseclick_cb(button, pressed, line, column, x, y: number, string: status) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

Same as the L<BUTTON_CB|../call/iup_button_cb.html> IupCanvas callback
with two additional parameters:

B<line>, B<column>: the grid position in the control where the event
has occurred, in grid coordinates.

B<MOUSEMOTION_CB>: called when the mouse moves over the control.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, int line, int column, int x, int y, char *r); [in C]
 elem:mousemotion_cb(x, y: number, r: string) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

Same as the L<MOTION_CB|../call/iup_motion_cb.html> IupCanvas callback
with two additional parameters:

B<line>, B<column>: the grid position in the control where the event
has occurred, in grid coordinates.

B<NCOLS_CB>: called when then controls needs to know its number of
columns.

 int function(Ihandle* ih);  [in C]
 elem:ncols_cb() -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

Returns: an integer that specifies the number of columns. Default is 10
columns.

B<NLINES_CB>: called when then controls needs to know its number of
lines.

 int function(Ihandle* ih);  [in C]
 elem:nlines_cb() -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

Returns: an integer that specifies the number of lines. Default is 10
lines.

B<SCROLLING_CB>: called when the scrollbars are activated.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int line, int column);  [in C]
 elem:scrolling_cb(line, column: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<line, column>: the first visible line and column indexes (in grid
coordinates)

Returns: If IUP_IGNORE the cell is not redrawn. By default the cell is
always redrawn.

B<VSPAN_CB>: called when the control needs to know if a cell should
be vertically spanned.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int line, int column);  [in C]
 elem:vspan_cb(line, column: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<line, column>: the line and column indexes (in grid coordinates)

Returns: an integer that specifies the desired span. Default is 1 (no
span).

B<WIDTH_CB>: called when the controls needs to know the column width

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int column);  [in C]
 elem:width_cb(column: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<column:> the column index

Returns: an integer that specifies the desired width (in pixels).
Default is 60 pixels.

=over

----

=back

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>,
L<GETFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_getfocus_cb.html>,
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_killfocus_cb.html>,
L<ENTERWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_enterwindow_cb.html>,
L<LEAVEWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_leavewindow_cb.html>,
L<K_ANY|../call/iup_k_any.html>, L<HELP_CB|../call/iup_help_cb.html>:
All common callbacks are supported.

=head2 Utility Functions

These functions can be used to help set and get attributes from the
control:

 void  IupSetAttributeId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, const char* value);
 char* IupGetAttributeId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col);
 int   IupGetIntId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col);
 float IupGetFloatId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col);
 void  IupSetfAttributeId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, const char* format, ...);
 void  IupSetIntId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, int value);
 void  IupSetFloatId2(Ihandle* ih, const char* name, int lin, int col, float value);

 IupSetAttribute(ih, "30:10", value)        => IupSetAttributeId2(ih, "", 30, 10, value)
 IupSetAttribute(ih, "BGCOLOR30:10", value) => IupSetAttributeId2(ih, "BGCOLOR", 30, 10, value)
 IupSetAttribute(ih, "ALIGNMENT10", value)  => IupSetAttributeId(ih, "ALIGNMENT", 10, value)

When one of the indices is the asterisk, use IUP_INVALID_ID as the
parameter. For ex:

 IupSetAttribute(ih, "BGCOLOR30:*", value) => IupSetAttributeId2(ih, "BGCOLOR", 30, IUP_INVALID_ID, value)

These functions are faster than the traditional functions because they
do not need to parse the attribute name string and the application does
not need to concatenate the attribute name with the id.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

Checkerboard Pattern

[IMAGE]

Numbering Cells

[IMAGE]

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>

=cut