=head1 IupDial

Creates a dial for regulating a given angular variable.

This is an additional control that depends on the CD library. It is
included in the L<Controls Library|../iupcontrols.html>.

It inherits from L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupDial(const char *type); [in C]
 iup.dial{type: string} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 dial(type) [in LED] 

B<type>: optional dial type, can be NULL. See TYPE attribute.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<DENSITY>: number of lines per pixel in the handle of the dial.
Default is "0.2".

L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html>: the default is "NO".

L<FGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_fgcolor.html>: foreground color. The default
value is "64 64 64". Not used for the circular dial.

L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html> (non inheritable): the initial size is
"16x80", "80x16" or "40x35" according to the dial type. Set to NULL to
allow the automatic layout use smaller values.

B<TYPE> (creation only) (non inheritable): dial layout configuration
"VERTICAL", "HORIZONTAL" or "CIRCULAR". Default: "HORIZONTAL".

B<UNIT>: unit of the angle. Can be "DEGREES" or "RADIANS". Default is
"RADIANS". Used only in the callbacks.

B<VALUE >(non inheritable): The dial angular value in radians. The
value is reset to zero when the interaction is started, except for
TYPE=CIRCULAR. When type is vertical or horizontal, the dial measures
relative angles. When type is circular the dial measure absolute
angles, where the origin is at 3 O'clock.

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>,
L<BGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_bgcolor.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<X|../attrib/iup_x.html>, L<Y|../attrib/iup_y.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Callbacks

B<BUTTON_PRESS_CB>: Called when the user presses the left mouse button
over the dial. The angle here is always zero, except for the circular
dial.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, double angle)
 elem:button_press_cb(angle: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<angle>: the dial value converted according to UNIT.

B<BUTTON_RELEASE_CB>: Called when the user releases the left mouse
button after pressing it over the dial.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, double angle)
 elem:button_release_cb(angle: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<angle>: the dial value converted according to UNIT.

B<MOUSEMOVE_CB>: Called each time the user moves the dial with the
mouse button pressed. The angle the dial rotated since it was
initialized is passed as a parameter.

 int function(Ihandle *ih, double angle); [in C]
 elem:mousemove_cb(angle: number) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<angle>: the dial value converted according to UNIT.

B<VALUECHANGED_CB>: Called after the value was interactively changed by
the user. It is called whenever a B<BUTTON_PRESS_CB>, a
B<BUTTON_RELEASE_CB> or aB< MOUSEMOVE_CB> would also be called, but if
defined those callbacks will not be called. (since 3.0)

 int function(Ihandle *ih); [in C]elem:valuechanged_cb() -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

=over

----

=back

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>,
L<GETFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_getfocus_cb.html>,
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_killfocus_cb.html>,
L<ENTERWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_enterwindow_cb.html>,
L<LEAVEWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_leavewindow_cb.html>,
L<K_ANY|../call/iup_k_any.html>, L<HELP_CB|../call/iup_help_cb.html>:
All common callbacks are supported.

=head2 Notes

When the keyboard arrows are pressed and released the mouse press and
the mouse release callbacks are called in this order. If you hold the
key down the mouse move callback is also called for every repetition.

When the wheel is rotated only the mouse move callback is called, and
it increments the last angle the dial was rotated.

In all cases the value is incremented or decremented by PI/10 (18
degrees).

If you press Shift while using the arrow keys the increment is reduced
to PI/100 (1.8 degrees). Press the Home key in the circular dial to
reset to 0. (since 3.0)

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

[IMAGE]

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>

=cut