=head1 IupGauge

Creates a Gauge control. Shows a percent value that can be updated to
simulate a progression. It inherits from
L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>.

This is an additional control that depends on the CD library. It is
included in the L<Controls Library|../iupcontrols.html>.

It is recommended that new applications use the
L<IupProgressBar|../elem/iupprogressbar.html> control of the main
library.

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupGauge(void); [in C]
 iup.gauge{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 gauge() [in LED] 

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<DASHED>: Changes the style of the gauge for a dashed pattern. Default
is "NO".

L<FGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_fgcolor.html>: Controls the gauge and text
color. The default is "64 96 192".

B<MAX >(non inheritable): Contains the maximum value. Default is "1".

B<MIN >(non inheritable): Contains the minimum value. Default is "0".

B<PADDING>: internal margin. Works just like the MARGIN attribute of
the B<IupHbox> and B<IupVbox> containers, but uses a different name to
avoid inheritance problems. Default value: "0x0". (since 3.0)

B<SHOW_TEXT>: Indicates if the text inside the Gauge is to be shown or
not. If the gauge is dashed the text is never shown. Possible values:
"YES" or "NO". Default: "YES".

L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html> (non inheritable): The initial size is
"120x14". Set to NULL to allow the automatic layout use smaller values.

B<TEXT >(non inheritable): Contains a text to be shown inside the Gauge
when SHOW_TEXT=YES. If it is NULL, the percentage calculated from VALUE
will be used. If the gauge is dashed the text is never shown.

B<VALUE >(non inheritable): Contains a number between "MIN" and "MAX",
controlling the current position.

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>,
L<BGCOLOR|../attrib/iup_bgcolor.html>,
L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|../attrib/iup_screenposition.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Callbacks

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>: common callbacks are supported.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

iupgauge.png

The Two Types of Gauge

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>

=cut