=head1 IupMatrix Attributes (all non inheritable with exceptions)

=head2 General Attributes

B<X<CURSOR>CURSOR>: Default cursor used by the matrix. The default
cursor is a symbol that looks like a cross. If you need to refer to
this default cursor, use the name "IupMatrixCrossCursor".

B<X<EDIT_MODE>EDIT_MODE>: When set to YES, programmatically puts the
current cell in edition mode, allowing the user to modify its value.
When consulted informs if the the current cell is being edited.
Possible values: "YES" or "NO".

B<X<EDITNEXT>EDITNEXT>: controls how the next cell after editing is
chosen. Can be LIN, COL, LINCR, COLCR. Default: LIN. (since 3.4)

LIN - go to the next line, if at last line then go to the next column
at the same line;

LINCR - go to the next line, if at last line then go to the next column
at the first line;

COL - go to the next column, if at last column then go to the next line
at the same column;

COLCR - go to the next column, if at last column then go to the next
line at the first column;

NONE - stay in the same cell. (since 3.6)

B<X<FOCUS_CELL>FOCUS_CELL>: Defines the current cell. Two numbers in
the "B<I<L>>:B<I<C>>" format, (B<I<L>>E<gt>0 and B<I<C>>E<gt>0, a title
cell can NOT be the current cell). Default: "1:1".

B<X<HIDEFOCUS>HIDEFOCUS>: do not show the focus mark when drawing the
matrix. Default is NO.

B<X<HIDDENTEXTMARKS>HIDDENTEXTMARKS>: when text is greater than cell
space, it is normally cropped, but when set to YES a "..." mark will be
added at the crop point to indicate that there is more text not
visible. Default: NO. (since 3.1)

B<LIMITEXPAND>: limit expansion to the maximum size that shows all
cells. This will set the MAXSIZE attribute to match the natural size of
the matrix when all cells are visible. When the scrollbars have
*AUTOHIDE=Yes, the maximum size will not include the scrollbars (since
3.9). (since 3.5)

B<X<ORIGIN>ORIGIN>: Scroll the visible area to the given cell. Returns
the cell at the upper left corner. To scroll to a line or a column, use
a value such as "B<I<L>>:*" or "*:B<I<C>>" (where I<B<L>>E<gt>0 and
B<I<C>>E<gt>0). L and C can not be a non scrollable cell either.

B<X<ORIGINOFFSET>ORIGINOFFSET>: complements the ORIGIN attribute by
specifying the drag offset of the top left cell. Returns the current
value. Has the format "X:Y" or "%d:%d" in C. When changing this
attribute must change also ORIGIN right after. (since 3.5)

B<X<READONLY>READONLY>: disables the editing of all cells. EDITION_CB
and VALUE_EDIT_CB will not be called anymore. The L:C attribute will
still be able to change the cell value. (since 3.0)

B<X<RESIZEMATRIX>RESIZEMATRIX>: Defines if the width of a column can be
interactively changed. When this is possible, the user can change the
size of a column by dragging the column title right border. Possible
values: "YES" or "NO". Default: "NO" (does not allow interactive width
change).

B<SHOWFILLVALUE>: enable the display of the numeric percentage in the
cell when TYPE* is FILL. Default: NO. (since 3.9)

B<X<USETITLESIZE>USETITLESIZE:> Use the title size to define the cell
size if necessary. See WIDTHn and HEIGHTn. Default: NO. (since 3.0)

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>,
L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|../attrib/iup_screenposition.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>, L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Cell Attributes (no redraw)

(These attributes are only updated in the display when you set the
L<REDRAW|#REDRAW> attribute.)

I<B<X<L:C>L>>X<L:C>B<:I<C>>: Text of the cell located in line L and
column C, where L and C are integer numbers.

B<I<L>:0>: Title of line L.

B<0:I<C>>: Title of column C.

B<0:0>: Title of the area between the line and column titles.

These are valid only in normal mode.

B<TYPEI<L>:I<C>>: Type of the cell value in line L and column C. (Since
3.9)

B<TYPE*:I<C>>: Type of column C. (Since 3.9)

B<TYPEI<L>:*>: Type of line L. (Since 3.9)

Can be TEXT, COLOR, FILL, or IMAGE. When type is COLOR the cell value
is interpreted as a color and a rectangle with the color is drawn
inside the cell instead of the text (the FGCOLOR of the cell is
ignored). When type is FILL the cell value is interpreted as percentage
and a rectangle showing the percentage in the FGCOLOR is drawn like in
B<IupGauge> and B< IupProgressBar>. When type is IMAGE the cell value
is interpreted as an image name, and if an image exist with that name
is drawn (the name can NOT be of a Windows resource or GTK stock
image). Default: TEXT. (Since 3.9)

B<X<BGCOLOR>BGCOLOR>: Background color of the matrix. (inheritable)

B<BGCOLOR*:I<C>>: Background color of column C.

B<BGCOLORI<L>:*>: Background color of line L.

B<BGCOLORI<L>:I<C>>: Background color of the cell in line L and column
C.

When more than one attribute are defined, the background color will be
selected following this priority: BGCOLORL:C, BGCOLORL:*, BGCOLOR*:C,
and last BGCOLOR. (L or C E<gt>= 0)

Default BGCOLOR is the global attribute TXTBGCOLOR for cells and the
parent's BGCOLOR for titles.

Since the matrix control can be larger than the matrix itself, the
empty area will always be filled with the parent's BGCOLOR.

B<X<FGCOLOR>FGCOLOR>: Text color. (inheritable)

B<FGCOLOR*:I<C>>: Text color of column C.

FGCOLORI<L>:*: Text color of line L.

B<FGCOLORI<L>:I<C>>: Text color of the cell in line L and column C.

When more than one attribute are define, the text color of a cell will
be selected following this priority: FGCOLORL:C, FGCOLORL:*,
FGCOLOR*:C, and last FGCOLOR. (L or C E<gt>= 0)

Default FGCOLOR is the global attribute TXTFGCOLOR for cells or the
global attribute DLGFGCOLOR for titles.

B<X<FONT>L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>>: Character font of the text.
(inheritable)

B<FONTI<L>:*>: Text font of the cells in line L.

B<FONT*:I<C>>: Text font of the cells in column C.

B<FONTI<L>:I<C>>: Text font of the cell in line L and column C.

This attribute must be set before the control is showed. It affects the
calculation of the size of all the matrix cells. The cell size is
always calculated from the base FONT attribute.

B<X<FRAMECOLOR>FRAMECOLOR>: Sets the color to be used in the frame
lines. (inheritable)

B<FRAMEVERTCOLORI<L:C>>: Color of the vertical right frame line of the
cell. When not defined the FRAMECOLOR is used. For a title column cell
(col=0) defines right and left frames. If value is "BGCOLOR" the frame
line is not drawn.

B<FRAMEVERTCOLORI<*:C>>: same as FRAMEVERTCOLORI<L:C> but for all the
cells of the column C. (since 3.5)

B<FRAMEHORIZCOLORI<L:C>>: Color of the horizontal bottom frame line of
the cell. When not defined the FRAMECOLOR is used. For a title line
cell (lin=0) defines bottom and top frames. If value is "BGCOLOR" the
frame line is not drawn.

B<FRAMEHORIZCOLORI<L:*>>:same as FRAMEHORIZCOLORI<L:C > but for all the
cells of the line L. (since 3.5)

B<FRAMETITLEHIGHLIGHT>: by default the title cells will have a bright
line at left and top to configure a raise appearance. Can be Yes or No.
Default: Yes. (since 3.9)

B<RESIZEMATRIXCOLOR>: color used by the column resize feedback.
Default: "102 102 102". (Since 3.9)

B<TOGGLEVALUEI<L>:I<C> >: value of the toggle inside the cell. The
toggle is shown only if the DROPCHECK_CB returns IUP_CONTINUE for the
cell. When the toggle is interactively change the TOGGLEVALUE_CB
callback is called. (Since 3.9)

B<X<VALUE>VALUE>: Allows setting or verifying the value of the current
cell. Is the same as obtaining the current cell line and column from
FOCUS_CELL attribute, and then using them to access the "L:C"
attribute. But when updated or retrieved during cell editing, the edit
control will be updated or consulted instead of the matrix cell. When
retrieved inside the EDITION_CB callback when mode is 0, then the
return value is the new value that will be updated in the cell.

----

B<X<CELLBGCOLOR>CELLBGCOLORI<L>:I<C>> (read-only): Returns the actual
cell background color, including mark and active state modifications.
Returns NULL if the cell does not exists, or it is not visible, or the
element is not mapped. (since 3.6)

B<X<CELLFGCOLOR>CELLFGCOLORI<L>:I<C>> (read-only): Returns the actual
cell foreground color, including mark state modifications. Returns NULL
if the cell does not exists, or it is not visible, or the element is
not mapped. (since 3.6)

B<X<CELLOFFSET>CELLOFFSETI<L>:I<C>> (read-only): Returns the cell
computed offset in pixels from the top-left corner of the matrix, in
the format "XxY" or "%dx%d" in C. Returns NULL if the cell does not
exists, or it is not visible, or the element is not mapped. It will
only return a valid result if the cell has already been displayed. They
are similar to the parameters of the DRAW_CB callback but they do NOT
include the decorations. (since 3.5)

B<X<CELLSIZE>CELLSIZEI<L>:I<C>> (read-only): Returns the cell computed
size in pixels, in the format "WxH" or "%dx%d" in C. Returns NULL if
the cell does not exists, or the element is not mapped. It will only
return a valid result if the cell has already been displayed. They are
similar to the parameters of the DRAW_CB callback but they do NOT
include the decorations. (since 3.5)

=head2 Column Attributes (no redraw)

X<ALIGNMENTn>B<ALIGNMENT>I<B<C>> : Alignment of the cells in column C
(C E<gt>= 0). Possible values: "ALEFT", "ACENTER" or "ARIGHT". Default:
"ALEFT" for n=0 and "ACENTER" for nE<gt>0 for lines that greater than
0. Before checking the default value it will check the "B<ALIGNMENT>"
attribute value. If the text do not fit in the cell then the alignment
is changed to ALEFT. The default for line 0 is "ACENTER" but this can
be controlled with the "B<ALIGNMENTLIN0>" attribute (since 3.9).

X<SORTSIGNn>B<SORTSIGN>X<ALIGNMENTn0>I<B<C>> : Shows a sort sign (up or
down arrow) in the column C (C E<gt>= 0) title. Possible values: "UP",
"DOWN" and "NO". Default: NO.

=head2 Column Size Attributes

For all columns if WIDTHn is not defined, then RASTERWIDTHn is used. If
also not defined, then depending on the circumstances a logic is used
to find the column width.

If it is the title column (n=0), then if USETITLESIZE=YES or not in
callback mode, it will search for the maximum width among the titles of
all lines. Finally if the conditions are not true or the maximum width
of the column is 0, then the column of line titles is hidden.

If it is a regular column (nE<gt>0), then if USETITLESIZE=YES, then it
will use the width of the title of the column. Finally if the condition
is not true or the width of the title of the column is 0, then the
default value WIDTHDEF is used.

B<X<RASTERWIDTHn>RASTERWIDTHn>: Same as WIDTHn but in pixels. Has lower
priority than WIDTHn. The returned value is the actual computed size.

B<X<WIDTHn>WIDTHn>: Width of column n in SIZE units, where n is the
number of the column (nE<gt>=0). If the width value is 0, the column
will not be shown on the screen. It does not includes the decoration
size occupied by the frame lines. The returned value is the actual
computed size.

B<X<WIDTHDEF>WIDTHDEF>: Default column width in SIZE units. Not used
for the title column. Default: 80 (width corresponding to 20
characters).

=head2 Line Size Attributes

For all lines if HEIGHTn is not defined, then RASTERHEIGHTn is used. If
also not defined, then depending on the circumstances a logic is used
to find the line height.

If it is the title line (n=0), then if USETITLESIZE=YES or not in
callback mode, it will search for the maximum height among the titles
of all columns. Finally if the conditions are not true or the maximum
height of the line is 0, then the line of column titles is hidden.

If it is a regular line (nE<gt>0), then if USETITLESIZE=YES, then it
will use the height of the title of the line. Finally if the condition
is not true or the height of the title of the line is 0, then the
default value HEIGHTDEF is used.

B<X<HEIGHTn>HEIGHTn>: Height of line n in SIZE units, where n is the
number of the line (nE<gt>=0). If the height value is 0, the line will
not be shown on the screen. It does not includes the decoration size
occupied by the frame lines. The returned value is the actual computed
size.

B<X<HEIGHTDEF>HEIGHTDEF>: Default line height in SIZE units. Not used
for the title line. Default: 8 (height corresponding to 1 line).

B<X<RASTERHEIGHTn>RASTERHEIGHTn>: Same as HEIGHTn but in pixels. Has
lower priority than HEIGHTn. The returned value is the actual computed
size.

=head2 Number of Cells Attributes

When lines or columns are added or removed the existing cell, line and
column attributes are preserved, except custom application attributes.

B<X<ADDCOL>ADDCOL> (write-only): Adds a new column to the matrix after
the specified column. To insert a column at the top of the spreadsheet,
value 0 must be used. To add more than one column, use format
"B<I<C-C>>", where the first number corresponds to the base column and
the second number corresponds to the number of columns to be added. It
can be used in normal operation mode or in callback mode, but in
callback mode will not update cell values this must be done by the
application. Can NOT add a title column. Ignored if set before map.

B<X<ADDLIN>ADDLIN> (write-only): Adds a new line to the matrix after
the specified line. To insert a line at the top of the spreadsheet,
value 0 must be used. To add more than one line, use format
"B<I<L-L>>", where the first number corresponds to the base line and
the second number corresponds to the number of lines to be added. It
can be used in normal operation mode or in callback mode, but in
callback mode will not update cell values this must be done by the
application. Can NOT add a title line. Ignored if set before map.

B<X<DELCOL>DELCOL> (write-only): Removes the given column from the
matrix. To remove more than one column, use format "B<I<C-C>>", where
the first number corresponds to the base column and the second number
corresponds to the number of columns to be removed. It can be used in
normal operation mode or in callback mode, but in callback mode will
not update cell values this must be done by the application. Can NOT
remove a title column, B<I<C>>E<gt>0. Ignored if set before map.

B<X<DELLIN>DELLIN> (write-only): Removes the given line from the
matrix. To remove more than one line, use format "B<I<L-L>>", where the
first number corresponds to the base line and the second number
corresponds to the number of lines to be removed. It can be used in
normal operation mode or in callback mode, but in callback mode will
not update cell values this must be done by the application. Can NOT
remove a title line, B<I<L>>E<gt>0. Ignored if set before map.

B<X<NUMCOL>NUMCOL>: Defines the number of columns in the matrix. Must
be an integer number. Default: "0". It does not include the title
column. If changed after map will add empty cells or discard cells at
the end.

B<X<NUMCOL_VISIBLE>NUMCOL_VISIBLE>: When set defines the number of
visible columns to be counted when calculating the B<Natural> size, not
counting the title column. Not used elsewhere. The B<Natural> size will
always include the title column if any. Can be greater than the actual
number of columns, so room will be reserved for adding new columns
without the need to resize the matrix. Also it will always use the
first columns of the matrix, except if B<NUMCOL_VISIBLE_LAST>=YES then
it will use the last columns. The remaining columns will be accessible
only by using the scrollbar. IMPORTANT: When retrieved returns the
current number of visible columns, not including the non scrollable
columns. Default: "4".

X<NUMCOL_NOSCROLL>B<NUMCOL_NOSCROLL>: Number of columns that are non
scrollable, not counting the title column. Default: "0". It does not
affect the NUMCOL_VISIBLE attribute behavior nor Natural size
computation. It will always use the first columns of the matrix. The
cells appearance will be the same of ordinary cells, and they can also
receive the focus and be edited. Must be less than the total number of
columns. (since 3.5)

B<X<NUMLIN>NUMLIN>: Defines the number of lines in the matrix. Must be
an integer number. Default: "0". It does not include the title line. If
changed after map will add empty cells or discard cells at the end.

B<X<NUMLIN_VISIBLE>NUMLIN_VISIBLE>: When set defines the number of
visible lines to be counted when calculating the B<Natural> size, not
counting the title line. Not used elsewhere. The B<Natural> size will
always include the title line if any. Can be greater than the actual
number of lines, so room will be reserved for adding new lines without
the need to resize the matrix. Also it will always use the first lines
of the matrix, except if B<NUMLIN_VISIBLE_LAST>=YES then it will use
the last lines. The remaining lines will be accessible only by using
the scrollbar. IMPORTANT: When retrieved returns the current number of
visible lines, not including the non scrollable lines. Default: "3".

X<NUMLIN_NOSCROLL>B<NUMLIN_NOSCROLL>: Number of lines that are non
scrollable, not counting the title line. Default: "0". It does not
affect the NUMLIN_VISIBLE attribute behavior nor Natural size
computation. It will always use the first lines of the matrix. The
cells appearance will be the same of ordinary cells, and they can also
receive the focus and be edited. Must be less than the total number of
lines. (since 3.5)

=head2 Mark Attributes

B<MARKX<MARKAREA>AREA>: Defines if the area to be B<interactively>
marked by the user must be continuous or not, valid only if
MARKMULTIPLE=YES. Possible values: "CONTINUOUS" or "NOT_CONTINUOUS".
Default: "CONTINUOUS".

B<X<MARKMODE>MARKMODE>: Defines the entity that can be marked: none,
lines, columns, (lines or columns), and cells. Possible values: "NO",
"LIN", "COL", "LINCOL" or "CELL". Default: "NO" (no mark).

B<X<MARK>MARKI<L:C>> (no redraw): marks a cell, a line or a column
depending on MARKMODE, and returns cell, line or column mark state also
according to MARKMODE. Can be "1" or "0". If MARKMODE=LIN,COL,LINCOL
use 0 to mark only the other element (ex: "0:3" set/get for column 3).
Even when MARKMODE=LIN,COL,LINCOL you can specify a single cell
address. (since 3.0)

B<X<MARKED>MARKED>: String of '0' or '1' characters, informing which
cells are marked (indicated by value '1'). Use NULL to clear all marks,
returns NULL if no marks. The format of this character vector depends
on the value of the MARKMODE attribute: if its value is CELL, the
vector will have NUMLIN x NUMCOL positions, corresponding to all the
cells in the matrix starting with all the cells of the first line, then
the second line and so on. If its value is LIN, the vector will begin
with letter 'L' and will have further NUMLIN positions, each one
corresponding to a line in the matrix. If its value is COL, the vector
will begin with letter 'C' and will have further NUMCOL positions, each
one corresponding to a column in the matrix. If its value is LINCOL,
the first letter, which can be either 'L' or 'C', will indicate which
of the above formats is being used. If you change the other mark
attributes the marked cells are cleared. When setting the attribute the
LIN and COL notation can be used even if MARKMODE=CELL. MULTIPLE and
AREA are NOT considered when setting MARKED or MARKL:C.

B<MARKX<MARKMULTIPLE>MULTIPLE>: Defines if more than one entity defined
by MARKMODE can be B<interactively> marked. Possible values: "YES" or
"NO". Default: "NO".

=head2 Action Attributes

B<CLEARATTRIB> (write-only): Clear all cell attributes if ALL, all
attributes except titles if CONTENTS, and all selected cell attributes
if MARKED. When ALL is specified, all lines and column attributes are
also cleared. (since 3.6)

B<X<CLEARATTRIB>CLEARATTRIB>B<I<L>:I<C>> (write-only): Clear all cell
attributes in an interval starting at the specified cell. Its value
defines the end cell in the "L:C" format, the default is the last cell.
(since 3.6)

B<CLEARATTRIBI<L>:*> (write-only): the cell attributes in line L. Its
value defines a column inclusive interval in the "C1-C2" format. The
default is 0 and the last column. When a full line is specified, all
line attributes are also cleared. (since 3.6)

B<CLEARATTRIB*:I<C >>I<(write-only)>: the cell attributes in column C.
Its value defines a line inclusive interval in the "L1-L2" format. The
default is 0 and the last line. When a full column is specified, all
column attributes are also cleared, including ALIGNMENT and SORTSIGN.
(since 3.6)

In all cases, attributes are set to NULL. Only the attributes FONT*,
BGCOLOR*, FGCOLOR*, FRAMEHORIZCOLOR*, FRAMEHORIZCOLOR*, ALIGNMENT* and
SORTSIGN* are affected. In callback mode will not call the user
callbacks.

B<CLEARVALUE> (write-only): Clear all values if ALL, all values except
titles if CONTENTS, and all selected cell values if MARKED. (since 3.6)

B<X<CLEARVALUE>CLEARVALUE>B<I<L>:I<C>> (write-only): Clear all values
in an interval starting at the specified cell. Its value defines the
end cell in the "L:C" format, the default is the last cell. (since 3.6)

B<CLEARVALUEI<L>:*> (write-only): the values in line L. Its value
defines a column inclusive interval in the "C1-C2" format. The default
is 0 and the last column. (since 3.6)

B<CLEARVALUE*:I<C >>(write-only): the values in column C. Its value
defines a line inclusive interval in the "L1-L2" format. The default is
0 and the last line. (since 3.6)

In all cases, values are set to NULL. Works also in callback mode.

B<COPYCOLI<C >>(write-only): copy the values and attributes from column
C to the given column (value is the number of a column). (Since 3.9)

B<COPYLINI<L >>(write-only): copy the values and attributes from line L
to the given line (value is the number of a line). (Since 3.9)

X<FITTOSIZE>B<FITTOSIZE> (write-only): Force lines and/or columns sizes
so the matrix visible size fit in its current size. NUMCOL_VISIBLE and
NUMLIN_VISIBLE are considered when fitting and they are not changed,
only the RASTERWIDTHn and RASTERHEIGHTn attributes are changed. But if
any of the RASTERWIDTHn and RASTERHEIGHTn attributes where already set,
then they will not be changed. If the matrix is resized then it must be
set again to obtain the same result, but before doing that set to NULL
all the RASTERWIDTHn and RASTERHEIGHTn attributes that you want to be
changed. Can be LINES, COLUMNS or YES (meaning both). (since 3.3)

X<FITTOTEXT>B<FITTOTEXT> (write-only): Fit the RASTERWIDTHn or the
RASTERHEIGHTn attribute for the given column or line, so that it will
fit the largest text in the column or the highest text in the line. The
number of the column or line must be preceded by a character
identifying its type, "C" for columns and "L" for lines. For example
"C5"=column 5 or "L3"=line 3. If FITMAXWIDTHn or FITMAXHEIGHTn are set
for the column or line they are used as maximum limit for the size.
(since 3.4)

B<MOVECOLI<C >>(write-only): move the values and attributes from column
C to the given column (value is the number of a column). Internally
will use ADDCOL+COPYCOL+DELCOL to perform the move so it is limited to
those attributes restrictions. It can be used in normal operation mode
or in callback mode, but in callback mode will not update cell values,
this must be done by the application. (Since 3.9)

B<MOVELINI<L >>(write-only): move the values and attributes from line L
to the given line (value is the number of a line). Internally will use
ADDLIN+COPYLIN+DELLIN to perform the move so it is limited to those
attributes restrictions. It can be used in normal operation mode or in
callback mode, but in callback mode will not update cell values, this
must be done by the application. (Since 3.9)

B<X<REDRAW>REDRAW> (write-only): The user can inform the matrix that
the data has changed, and it must be redrawn. Values:

"ALL": Redraws the whole matrix.

"L%d": Redraws the given line (e. g.: "L3" redraws line 3)

"L%d-%d": Redraws the lines in the given region (e.g.: "L2-4" redraws
lines 2, 3 and 4)

"C%d": Redraws the given column (e.g.: "C3" redraws column 3)

"C%d-%d": Redraws the columns in the given region (e.g: "C2-4" redraws
columns 2, 3 and 4)

No redraw is done when the application sets the attributes: L:C,
ALIGNMENTc, BGCOLOR*, FGCOLOR*, FONT*, VALUE, FRAME*COLOR, MARKL:C.
Global and size attributes always automatically redraw the matrix.

B<X<SHOW>SHOW> (write-only): If necessary scroll the visible area to
make the given cell visible. To scroll to a line or a column, use a
value such as "B<I<L>>:*" or "*:B<I<C>>" (where I<B<L>>E<gt>0 and
B<I<C>>E<gt>0). (since 3.0)

=head2 Text Editing Attributes

B<X<CARET>CARET>: Allows specifying and verifying the caret position of
the text box in edition mode.

B<X<MASKL:C>MASKI<L:C>>: Defines a mask that will filter text input.
The L<MASK|../attrib/iup_mask.html> auxiliary attributes are also
available by adding the line and column at the end of the attribute
name.

B<X<MULTILINE>MULTILINE>: allows the edition of multiple lines. Use
Shift+Enter to add lines. Enter will end the editing.

B<X<SELECTION>SELECTION>: Allows specifying and verifying selection
interval of the text box in edition mode.

=head2 Canvas Attributes (inheritable)

B<X<BORDER>BORDER>: Changed to NO.

B<X<SCROLLBAR>SCROLLBAR>: Changed to YES.

=cut