=head1 IupOleControl [Windows only]

The IupOleControl hosts an windows OLE control (also named ActiveX
control), allowing it to be used inside IUP dialogs. There are many OLE
controls available, like calendars, internet browsers, PDF readers etc.

Notice that IupOleControl just takes care of the visualization of the
control (size and positioning), and map some callbacks (navigate and
new window) using a listener interface to sink events. It does not deal
with properties, methods and events. The application must deal with
them using the COM interfaces offered by the control. Nevertheless,
using IupLua together with
L<LuaCOM|http://luaforge.net/projects/luacom/> makes it possible to use
OLE controls very easily in Lua, accessing their methods, properties
and events similarly to the other IUP elements.

Notice that this control works only on Windows.

=head2 Initialization and usage

The B<IupOleControlOpen> function must be called after a B<IupOpen>, so
that the control can be used. The iupole.h file must also be included
in the source code. The program must be linked to the controls library
(iupole).

To make the control available in Lua use require"iupluaole" or manually
call the initialization function in C, B<iupolelua_open>, after calling
B<iuplua_open>. When manually calling the function the iupluaole.h file
must also be included in the source code, and the program must be
linked to the lua control library (iupluaole).

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupOleControl(const char* ProgID); [in C]
 iup.olecontrol{ProgID: string} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 olecontrol(ProgID) [in LED]

ProgID

: the programmatic identifier of the OLE control. This can be found in
the documentation of the OLE control or by browsing the list of
registered controls, using tools like OleView.

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<DESIGNMODE>: activates the design mode. Some controls behave
differently when in design mode. See L<this
article|http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;260744>
for more information about design mode. Can be YES or NO. Default
value: "NO".

B<DESIGNMODE_DONT_NOTIFY>: sets the design mode, but do not notify the
native control.

B<IUNKNOWN> (read-only): Returns the IUnknown pointer for the control.
This pointer is necessary to access methods and properties of the
control in C/C++ code.

=over

----

=back

The control's specific attributes shall be accessed using the COM
mechanism (see section below for more information).

Some IupCanvas attributes may also work, like:

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|../attrib/iup_screenposition.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>, L<SIZE|../attrib/iup_size.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>

=head2 Callbacks

In C/C++, the OLE control's callbacks (events, in ActiveX terms) shall
be set using the control's interface and the COM mechanism. When using
IupLua, it's possible to call methods, access properties and receive
events from the OLE control using the
L<LuaCOM|http://luaforge.net/projects/luacom/> library. When the LuaCOM
library is loaded, call elem:CreateLuaCOM so a LuaCOM object is created
and stored in the B< "elem.com"> field of the object returned by
iup.olecontrol. This LuaCOM object can be used to access properties,
methods and events in a way very similar to VB. See the examples for
more information.

=over

----

=back

Some B<IupCanvas> callbacks may also work, like:

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>,
L<GETFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_getfocus_cb.html>,
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_killfocus_cb.html>,
L<ENTERWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_enterwindow_cb.html>,
L<LEAVEWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_leavewindow_cb.html>.

=head2 Additional Methods in Lua

 elem:CreateLuaCOM()

If LuaCOM is loaded and the IUNKNOWN is valid then set:

=over

 elem.com = luacom.CreateLuaCOM(luacom.ImportIUnknown(elem.iunknown))

=back

=head2 Notes

To learn more about OLE and ActiveX:

L<http:E<47>E<47>www.microsoft.comE<47>com|http://www.microsoft.com/com>

L<http:E<47>E<47>www.webopedia.comE<47>TERME<47>AE<47>ActiveX_control.html|http://www.webopedia.com/TERM/A/ActiveX_control.html>

L<http:E<47>E<47>msdn.microsoft.comE<47>workshopE<47>componentsE<47>activexE<47>activex_node_entry.asp|http://msdn.microsoft.com/workshop/components/activex/activex_node_entry.asp>

L<http:E<47>E<47>activex.microsoft.comE<47>activexE<47>activexE<47>|http://activex.microsoft.com/activex/activex/>

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

[IMAGE]

=cut