=head1 IupWebBrowser [GTK and Windows only] (since 3.3)

Creates a web browser control. It is responsible for managing the
drawing of the web browser content and forwarding of its events.

In Linux, the implementation uses the
L<WebKitE<47>GTK+|http://webkitgtk.org/>, the new GTK+ port of the
L<WebKit|http://webkit.org>, an open-source web content engine. More
information about WebKit/GTK+ (building, dependencies, releases, etc)
can be seen in L<Notes|#Notes> section. It is only available for
Linux26g4 and Linux26g4_64 systems.

In Windows, the implementation uses the B<IupOleControl> to embed an
instance of the Internet Explorer WebBrowser control. A listener
interface is used to capture and handle events using the Active
Template Library
(L<ATL|http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/t9adwcde%28v=VS.80%29.aspx>)
classes. More information about ATL can be seen in L<Notes|#Notes>
section. So it is only available for Visual C++ compilers.

=head2 Initialization and usage

The B<IupWebBrowserOpen> function must be called after B<IupOpen>. The
iupweb.h file must also be included in the source code. The program
must be linked to the controls library (iupweb). If static linking is
used then in Windows must be linked with the "iupole" library and in
Linux must be linked with the "webkit-1.0" library

To make the control available in Lua use require"iupluaweb" or manually
call the initialization function in C, B<iupweblua_open>, after calling
B<iuplua_open>. When manually calling the function the iupluaweb.h file
must also be included in the source code, and the program must be
linked to the lua control library (iupluaweb).

=head2 Creation

 Ihandle* IupWebBrowser(); [in C]
 iup.webbrowser{} -> (elem: ihandle) [in Lua]
 webbrowser() [in LED]

Returns: the identifier of the created element, or NULL if an error
occurs.

=head2 Attributes

B<VALUE>: sets a specified URL to load into the webbrowser, or retrieve
the current URL.

B<BACKFORWARD >(write only): sets the number of steps away from the
current page and loads the history item. Negative values represent
steps backward while positive values represent steps forward.

B<STATUS> (read only): returns the load status. Can be "LOADING",
"COMPLETED" or "FAILED".

B<STOP >(write only): stops any ongoing load in the webbrowser.

B<RELOAD> (write only): reloads the page in the webbrowser.

B<HTML> (write only): loads a given HTML content.

B<BACKCOUNT> [GTK Only] (read only): gets the number of items that
precede the current page.

B<FORWARDCOUNT> [GTK Only] (read only): gets the number of items that
succeed the current page.

B<ITEMHISTORYid> [GTK Only] (read only): Returns the URL associated
with a specific history item. Negative "id" value represents a backward
item while positive "id" value represents a forward item ("0"
represents the current item).

=over

----

=back

L<ACTIVE|../attrib/iup_active.html>, L<FONT|../attrib/iup_font.html>,
L<EXPAND|../attrib/iup_expand.html>,
L<SCREENPOSITION|../attrib/iup_screenposition.html>,
L<POSITION|../attrib/iup_position.html>,
L<MINSIZE|../attrib/iup_minsize.html>,
L<MAXSIZE|../attrib/iup_maxsize.html>, L<WID|../attrib/iup_wid.html>,
L<TIP|../attrib/iup_tip.html>,
L<RASTERSIZE|../attrib/iup_rastersize.html>,
L<ZORDER|../attrib/iup_zorder.html>,
L<VISIBLE|../attrib/iup_visible.html>: also accepted.

=head2 Callbacks

B<COMPLETED_CB>: action generated when a page successfully
completed. Can be called multiple times when a frame set loads its
frames, or when a page loads also other pages.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, char* url);  [in C]
 elem:completed_cb(url) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<url>: the URL address that completed.

B<ERROR_CB>: action generated when page load fail.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, char* url);  [in C]
 elem:error_cb(url) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<url>: the URL address that caused the error.

B<NAVIGATE_CB>: action generated when the browser requests a
navigation to another page. It is called before navigation occurs. Can
be called multiple times when a frame set loads its frames, or when a
page loads also other pages.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, char* url);  [in C]
 elem:navigate_cb(url) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<url>: the URL address to navigate to.

Returns: IUP_IGNORE will abort navigation (since 3.4).

B<NEWWINDOW_CB>: action generated when the browser requests a new
window.

 int function(Ihandle* ih, char* url);  [in C]
 elem:newwindow_cb(url) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifier of the element that activated the event.

B<url>: the URL address that is opened in the new window.

=over

----

=back

L<MAP_CB|../call/iup_map_cb.html>,
L<UNMAP_CB|../call/iup_unmap_cb.html>,
L<GETFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_getfocus_cb.html>,
L<KILLFOCUS_CB|../call/iup_killfocus_cb.html>,
L<ENTERWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_enterwindow_cb.html>,
L<LEAVEWINDOW_CB|../call/iup_leavewindow_cb.html>,
L<K_ANY|../call/iup_k_any.html>, L<HELP_CB|../call/iup_help_cb.html>:
All common callbacks are supported.

=head2 Notes

To learn more about WebKit and WebKitGTK+:

L<The WebKit Open Source Project|http://webkit.org/>

L<The WebKitGTK+ web page|http://webkitgtk.org/>

L<WebKitGTK+ wiki|http://live.gnome.org/WebKitGtk>

L<WebKitGTK+ tracker|http://trac.webkit.org/wiki/WebKitGTK>

To learn more about Internet Explorer WebBrowser control and ATL:

L<WebBrowser Control from
CE<47>C++|http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa752044%28VS.85%29.aspx>

L<Creating ATL sinks|http://support.microsoft.com/kb/194179/en-us/>

L<Examples of sinking COM
events|http://homepage.eircom.net/~codexpert/sink/>

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

[IMAGE]

=cut