=head1 Motif System Driver

Driver for the X-Windows/Motif 2.x environment.

=head2 Environment Variables

B<DEBUG>

This variables existence makes the driver operate in synchronous mode
with the X server. This slows down all operations, but allows
immediately detecting errors caused by X.

=head2 B<Default Values Resource Files>

Some default values used by the driver, such as background color,
foreground color and font, can be set by the user by means of a
resource file called "Iup". It must be in the users home or in a
directory pointed to by the XAPPLRESDIR environment variable. Below you
can see an example of this files contents:

 *background: #ff0000
 *foreground: #a0ff00
 *fontList: -misc-fixed-bold-r-normal-*-13-*

The values used in the example above are the ones used by IUP if these
resources are not defined.

Also a resource file named ".Xdefaults" will also affect the visual
appearance of all applications that use Motif and Intrinsics.

=head2 Tips

=head2 Dynamic Libraries in Linux

When using dynamic libraries in Linux, the "libiup.so" uses the GTK
driver for newer systems (Linux26g4). So applications that dynamically
load IUP will always use the "libiup.so", for example Lua using
require. To use the IUP Motif dynamic library in Linux you must rename
the "libiupmot.so" to "libiup.so", so the Motif driver will be loaded
instead of the GTK driver.

In older systems (E<lt>=Linux26 with gcc 3) the "libiup.so" already
contains the Motif driver.

=head2 During linking in the Solaris environment: Can not find
B<libresolv.so.2>

This error occurs if the system does not have an applied patch
containing this library.

This library is important for all installations of Solaris 2.5 and
2.5.1 (SunOS 5.5 and 5.5.1, respectively). It is a correction of the
DNS system, involving security.

The web address to get these patches is SunSolves
L<http:E<47>E<47>sunsolve1.sun.comE<47>sunsolveE<47>pubpatchesE<47>patches.html|http://sunsolve1.sun.com/sunsolve/pubpatches/patches.html>.
Select the Solaris version you wish (2.5 or 2.5.1 for Sparc) and
download the patches 103667-09, 102980-17, 103279-03, 103708-02, or
more recent for 2.5 (the number after the - is the patch version, and
the more recent number is the patch), or 103663-12, 103594-14,
103680-02 and 103686-02 for 2.5.1. All of them have a README file
explaining installation, and groups have to be installed together.

=head2 TrueColor canvas

Whenever a canvas is created, one tries to create it with a TrueColor
resolution Visual. This is not always possible, since it is subject to
many conditions, such as hardware (graphics board) and the X servers
configuration.

The B<xdpyinfo> program informs which Visuals are available in the X
server where the display is being made, so that you can see if your X
allows creating a canvas with a TrueColor Visual. In some platforms,
however, the X server may not make a TrueColor Visual available, even
though the graphics board is able to display it. In this case, restart
the server with parameters that force this. Below is a table with such
parameters to some systems where the IUP library has been tested. If
the command does not work, or if it is not possible, then the graphics
library really does not support 24 bpp.

System

Execution Command

Linux

startx --bpp 24

AIX

(not necessary)

IRIX

(not necessary)

Solaris

(not necessary)

Since color requests are always successful in TrueColor/24bpp windows,
we have minimized visualization problems for images that make use of
complex color palettes (when there is a high color demand, not always
all colors requested can be obtained). The IUP applications also
coexist more peacefully with other applications and among themselves,
since the colors used by TrueColor/24bpp windows do not use the
colormap cells used by all applications.

=head2 XtAddCallback failed

When a warning about XtAddCallback appears during the application
initialization, and it aborts, this usually means that you are using a
Motif with a different version than the Motif used to build IUP.
Reinstall Motif or rebuild IUP using your Motif.

=head2 Some Control Sizes are wrong (IUP 2.x only)

Sometimes the control initialization is incomplete and its size is
miscalculated. To solve this call IupMap(dialog) and set the dialog
size to NULL "IupSetAttribute(dlg, IUP_SIZE, NULL);" before calling
IupShow. This will fix the sizes.

=head2 Indigo Magic look in Sgi

To turn on the Indigo Magic look for an application, simply set the
applications sgiMode resource to TRUE. Typically, you should add this
line to the "/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults" file for your application:

appName*sgiMode: TRUE

where appName is the name of your application.

=cut