=head1 Win32 System Driver

This driver was designed for the modern Microsoft Windows in 32 bits or
64 bits (XP/2003/Vista/7).

=head2 DLL

To use DLL, it is necessary to link the application with the IUP.lib
and IUPSTUB.lib libraries (for technical reasons, these libraries
cannot be unified). Note that IUP.lib is a library specially generated
to work with iup.dll, and is usually distributed in the same directory
as iup.dll. the IUP DLL depends on the MSVCRT.DLL, that it is already
installed in Windows.

For the program to work, IUP.dll must be inside a PATH directory.
Usually the program does not need to be re-linked when the DLL is
updated.

=head2 Tips

=head2 UTF-8

When IUP is built with UNICODE enabled, it is possible to specify
strings in UTF-8. But the default is still to use the current locale.
To use UTF-8 strings set the global attribute UTF8MODE to YES.

=head2 LINK : warning defaultlib 'LIBCMT' conflicts with use of other
libs; use /NODEFAULTLIB:library

This is a message displayed by Visual C++ compilers when one or more
libraries included for linking is not using the same C Run Time Library
as the application. In the same Visual C++ compiler there are 4
different libraries resulting from the combination of 2 options:
B<debug>/B<release> x B<dll>/B<static>.

The default configuration when a new project is created uses the C Run
Time Library in a DLL, options named "Multi-threaded Debug DLL (/MDd)"
for the B<Debug> configuration and "Multi-threaded DLL (/MD)" for the
B<Release> configuration. The IUP package that matches that
configuration is the "dll*" packages.

If you want to use static libraries then use the options
"Multi-threaded Debug (/MTd)" for the B<Debug> configuration and
"Multi-threaded (/MT)" for the B<Release> configuration. Then use the
IUP packages named "vc*".

The IUP pre-compiled packages do not have debug information, so even
selecting the correct B<dll>/B<static> combination, the warning will
also be displayed. In this case the warning is harmless. But if you
really want to avoid the warning simply use the same option without the
Debug information for Release and Debug configurations.

Finally one thing that is B<NOT> recommended is to do what the linker
warning suggests, to ignore the default libraries using the
/NODEFAULTLIB parameter. Only use that parameter if you really know
what you are doing, because using it you can create other linking
problems.

=head2 Visual C++ 6

Since 3.0 Visual C++6 is not supported, although we still provide
pre-compiled binaries. To compile the IUP 3 code with VC6 you will need
to download a new L<Platform
SDK|http://windowssdk.msdn.microsoft.com/>, because the one included in
the compiler is too old. But it cannot be a too new one also, because
the compiler will report errors in the newest headers.

We recommend you to upgrade your compiler. L<Visual C++ Express
Edition|http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/visualc/> is a free
compiler that has everything VC6 had and more.

=head2 COM Initialization

B<IupOpen> calls "CoInitializeEx(NULL, COINIT_APARTMENTTHREADED);", if
you need another concurrency model call CoInitializeEx with other
options before calling B<IupOpen>. Be aware that some features in some
controls require single-thread apartment, and they will stop working,
this includes: B<IupFileDLg> when selecting a folder, and
B<IupOleControl>.

=head2 InitCommonCtrlEx Linker Error

On Windows a common error occurs: "Cannot find function
B<InitCommonCtrlEx>()" This error occurs if you forgot to add the
comctl32.lib library to be linked with the program. This library is
B<not> usually in the libraries list for the Visual C++, you must add
it.

=head2 Custom IupFileDlg

To use some cursors and the preview area of B<IupFileDlg> you must
include the "iup.rc" file into your makefile. Or include the contents
of it into your resource file, you will need also to copy the cursor
files.

=head2 Windows XP/Vista/7 Visual Styles

Windows Visual Styles can be enabled using a manifest file. Uncomment
the manifest file section in "iup.rc" file or copy it to your own
resource file (you will need also to copy the manifest file
"iup.manifest").

When using Visual C++ 8/9/10 with "iup.manifest", configure the linker
properties of your project to do NOT generate a manifest file or the
Windows Visual Styles from the RC file won't work.

If your Windows is using the Windows Classic theme or any other theme,
IUP controls appearance will follow the system appearance only if you
are using the manifest. If not using the manifest, then it will always
look like Windows Classic.

=head2 B<Help in CHM format fail to open>

When you download a CHM file from the Internet Windows blocks your
access to the file. You must unblock it manually. Right click the file
in Explorer and select "Unblock" at the bottom of the dialog.

=head2 B<Black Canvas (Only in IUP 2.x)>

The B<IupGLCanvas> does not work when inside an B<IupFrame>, the result
is a black canvas with no drawing.

=cut