=head1 CD_CLIPBOARD - Clipboard Driver (cdclipbd.h)

This driver allows the access to a Clipboard area. It is greatly
dependent on the system. In Win32, it creates an L<Enhanced
Metafile|emf.html>, a B<Bitmap> or a L<CD Metafile|mf.html>; in
X-Windows and with GDK it creates only a L<CD Metafile|mf.html>.

=head2 Use

The canvas is created by means of a call to function L<
B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_CLIPBOARD,
Data), after which other functions in the CD library can be called as
usual. The Data parameter string is platform-dependent and varies
according to the metafile created. See each metafile's documentation,
but remember to exclude parameter "filename".

In the Windows environment, if the string "-b" is present at the end,
it means that a B<Bitmap> must be created instead of a metafile, and,
if the string "-m" is present at the end, a B<CD Metafile> will be
created. For a B<Bitmap> the remaining string must contains the bitmap
size and optionally its resolution: I<"widthxheight [resolution] -b">
or in C "C<I<B<%dx%d %g -b">>>, the resolution default is the screen
resolution.

In the X-Windows environment, the Display ("%p") where the data will be
stored must be passed as a parameter before the B<CD Metafile>
parameters. This environment's driver is used only for applications
that use CD to communicate with each other, because only CD Metafiles
are created.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. It is important
to note that a call to function L<
B<cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to properly
copy the data to the Clipboard.

You can interpret the data from the Clipboard using function B<cdPlay>.
In the X-Windows environment, the parameter "data" for the B<cdPlay
>function is the pointer to the Display where the metafile will be
obtained. The B<cdRegisterCallback> must be called for the driver that
will interpret the file, except for bitmaps that the B<CD_CLIPBOARD>
driver must be used.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

This driver is very platform-dependent.

For further detail, see the B< Behavior of Functions> in each base
driver: L<GDI|win32.html>, L<GDK|gdk.html> and L<X-Win|xwin.html>. To
use this driver with a context plus base driver is necessary to call B<
cdUseContextPlus>B<(1)> before creating the canvas, see the
L<GDI+|../drv/gdiplus.html>, L<Cairo|../drv/cairo.html> and
L<XRender|../drv/xrender.html> base drivers.

=cut