=head1 CD_DEBUG - CD Debug Driver (cddebug.h)

This driver creates a text file with a log of all function calls. But
for only the functions that have a driver implementation and in the
order that the driver implements sequece of functions like
Begin/Vertex/End. Pointers are stored as addresses, and definitions are
stored as the CD definition "CD_XXX".

=head2 Use

The file is created by calling function
L<B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_DEBUG, Data).
The Data parameter is a string that must contain the filename and the
canvas dimensions, in the following format:

 "filename [widthxheight] [resolution]" or in C use "%s %gx%g %g"

Only the parameter filename is required. The filename must be inside
double quotes (") if it has spaces. Width and height are provided in
millimeters (note the lowercase "x" between them), and their default
value in pixels is INT_MAX for both dimensions. Resolution is the
number of pixels per millimeter; its default value is "3.78 pixels/mm"
(96 DPI). Width, height and resolution are real values.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. It is important
to note that a call to function L<B<
cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to B<close>
the file properly.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

=head2 Coordinate System and Clipping

=over

=item * L< B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: NOT implemented.

=item * L< B<UpdateYAxis>|../func/coordinates.html#cdUpdateYAxis>: does
nothing.

=back

=head2 Attributes

L<B<FontDim>|../func/text.html#cdFontDim>: uses a size estimator,
returning approximate values.

L<B<TextSize>|../func/text.html#cdTextSize>: uses a size estimator,
returning approximate values.

=head2 Colors

=over

=item * L< B< GetColorPlanes>|../func/color.html#cdGetColorPlanes>:
always returns 24.

=back

=cut