=head1 CD_DGN - MicroStation Design File Driver (cddgn.h)

This driver allows generating a MicroStation design file. The file name
usually has an extension .DGN. The driver supports only MicroStation
version 4.0 or later. The format's copyrights are property of L<Bentley
Systems|http://www.bentley.com>.

=head2 Use

The file is created and opened by calling function
L<B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_DGN, Data), in
which Data contains the filename and canvas dimensions. This function
opens the file and writes its header. Then, other functions in the CD
library can be called as usual. The Data parameter string has the
following format:

 "filename [widthxheight] [resolution] [-f] [-sseedfile]"   or in C "%s %gx%g %g %s"

Only the parameter filename is required. The filename must be inside
double quotes (") if it has spaces. Width and height are provided in
millimeters (note the lowercase "x" between them), and their default
value in pixels is INT_MAX for both dimensions. Resolution is the
number of pixels per millimeter; its default value is "3.78 pixels/mm"
(96 DPI). Width, height and resolution are real values. Parameter -f
modifies the polygon filling's behavior. Just as in MicroStation, you
can specify a seed file using parameter -s. Width, height and
resolution are used only by L<
B<cdCanvasGetSize>|../func/coordinates.html#cdGetCanvasSize> and in
pixel-millimeter conversion.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. It is important
to note that a call to function L<B<
cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to close the
file properly.

B<Images and Colors> - The DGN format does not support server images
and works with an indexed-color format. Color quality is limited to 256
colors, and the format uses a uniform palette to convert RGB colors
into palette indices. If you configure a palette, the color conversion
process will become slower.

B<Filling> - Up to version 5.0, MicroStation presents some limitations
for polygon filling. You can disable filling by means of string "-f" in
the Data parameter. Filled polygons can only have around 10,000
vertices; if the value is larger, the polygon style changes to closed
lines.

B<Seed> - In the seed file, several DGN parameters can be defined to be
used in the drawing. The library offers a default seed file, called
"SEED2D.DGN". The file's location depends on the environment variable
B<CDDIR>.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

=head2 Control

=over

=item * L<B<Clear>|../func/control.html#cdClear>: does nothing.

=item * L<B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: does nothing, returns
CD_ERROR.

=back

=head2 Coordinate System and Clipping

=over

=item * L<B<Clip>|../func/clipping.html#cdClip>: does nothing (no
clipping function is supported), returns CD_CLIPOFF.

=item * L< B<UpdateYAxis>|../func/coordinates.html#cdUpdateYAxis>: does
nothing. The axis orientation is the same as the CD library.

=item * B<Transformation Matrix>: not supported.

=back

=head2 Primitives

=over

=item * L<B<Begin>|../func/lines.html#cdBegin>: if parameter
B<C<CD_CLIP>> is specified, does nothing. B<C< CD_BEZIER>> and
B<C<CD_PATH>> are simulated with lines.

=item * B<L<cdChord|../func/filled.html#cdChord>>: does nothing.

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over

=item * L<B< BackOpacity>|../func/filled.html#cdBackOpacity>: does
nothing, returns CD_OPAQUE.

=item * L< B< WriteMode>|../func/attributes.html#cdWriteMode>: does
nothing, returns CD_REPLACE.

=item * L< B< InteriorStyle>|../func/filled.html#cdInteriorStyle>: does
nothing.

=item * L<B< FillMode>|../func/filled.html#cdFillMode>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< LineCap>|../func/filled.html#cdLineCap>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< LineJoin>|../func/filled.html#cdLineJoin>: does nothing.

=item * L<B<Hatch>|../func/filled.html#cdHatch>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< Stipple>|../func/filled.html#cdStipple>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< Pattern>|../func/filled.html#cdPattern>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< TextSize>|../func/text.html#cdTextSize>: returns a
bounding box which is usually larger than the text (the computation is
based on the widest character).

=item * L<B< TextAlignment>|../func/text.html#cdTextAlignment>: uses
B<cdTextSize>, therefore is not precise.

=item * L<B<Font>|../func/text.html#cdFont>: See the font mapping table
for the equivalence used to map CD fonts into MicroStation fonts.
Styles are not supported.

=back

Font Mapping

CD Fonts

MicroStation Font Index

System

0

Courier

1

Times

2

Helvetica

3

=head2 Colors

=over

=item * L< B< GetColorPlanes>|../func/color.html#cdGetColorPlanes>:
returns 8 (MicroStation uses a palette with 256 values).

=item * L< B< Background>|../func/attributes.html#cdBackground>: always
returns C<CD_WHITE>.

=back

=head2 Client Images

=over

=item * L<B< GetImageRGB>|../func/client.html#cdGetImageRGB>: does
nothing.

=item * L<B< PutImageRGB>|../func/client.html#cdPutImageRGB>:
considering that the format supports only 256 colors, image quality is
quite poor.

=item * L<B< PutImageRGBA>|../func/client.html#cdPutImageRGBA>: alpha
is ignored.

=item * L<B< PutImageMap>|../func/client.html#cdPutImageMap>:
considering that the format supports only 256 colors, image quality is
quite poor.

=back

=head2 Server Images

=over

=item * All functions do nothing.

=back

=cut