=head1 CD_DXF - AutoCAD Image Exchange File Driver (cddxf.h)

This driver allows generating an AutoCAD image exchange file. The file
name usually has an extension .DXF. This driver supports only AutoCAD
version 10.0 or later. The format's copyrights are property of
L<Autodesk|http://www.autodesk.com>.

=head2 Use

The file is created and opened by calling function
L<B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_DXF, Data), in
which Data contains the file name and canvas dimensions. This function
opens the file and writes its header. Then, other functions in the CD
library can be called as usual. The Data parameter string has the
following format:

 "filename [widthxheight] [resolution]"    or in C "%s %gx%g %g"

Only the parameter filename is required. The filename must be inside
double quotes (") if it has spaces. Width and height are provided in
millimeters (note the lowercase "x" between them), and their default
value in pixels is INT_MAX for both dimensions. Resolution is the
number of pixels per millimeter; its default value is "3.78 pixels/mm"
(96 DPI). Width, height and resolution are given in real values and are
used only by L<B<
cdCanvasGetSize>|../func/coordinates.html#cdGetCanvasSize> and in
pixel-millimeter conversion.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. It is important
to note that a call to function L<B<
cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to close the
DXF file properly.

B<Images >- The DXF format does not support client or server images and
works with an indexed-color format (color quality is limited to 256
fixed colors).

B<Precision of Coordinates -> The primitives use coordinates in real
numbers.

B<Layers -> The format can work with several layers. It is necessary to
draw the primitives of layer '0' first, then layer '1' and so on. Use
functions L<B<Flush>|../func/control.html#cdFlush> to change the
current layer.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

=head2 Control

=over

=item * L<B<Flush>|../func/control.html#cdFlush>: changes the current
layer (the initial layer is '0', followed by '1' and so on).

=item * L<B<Clear>|../func/control.html#cdClear>: does nothing.

=item * L<B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: does nothing, returns
CD_ERROR.

=back

=head2 Coordinate System and Clipping

=over

=item * L<B<Clip>|../func/clipping.html#cdClip>: does nothing (no
clipping function is supported), returns CD_CLIPOFF.

=item * L< B<UpdateYAxis>|../func/coordinates.html#cdUpdateYAxis>: does
nothing. Axis orientation is the same as in the CD library.

=item * B<Transformation Matrix>: not supported.

=back

=head2 Primitives

=over

=item * L<B<Sector>|../func/filled.html#cdSector>: draws a "hollow"
sector, that is, only its borders.

=item * L<B<Begin>|../func/lines.html#cdBegin>: if parameter
B<C<CD_CLIP>> is specified, does nothing. B<C< CD_BEZIER>> and
B<C<CD_PATH>> are simulated with lines.

=item * B<L<Chord|../func/filled.html#cdChord>>: does nothing.

=item * Floating point primitives are supported.

=item * Solid filled primitives are supported only for polygons and
rectangles.

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over

=item * L<B< BackOpacity>|../func/filled.html#cdBackOpacity>: does
nothing, returns CD_TRANSPARENT.

=item * L< B< WriteMode>|../func/attributes.html#cdWriteMode>: does
nothing, returns CD_REPLACE.

=item * L<B<Hatch>|../func/filled.html#cdHatch>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< FillMode>|../func/filled.html#cdFillMode>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< LineCap>|../func/filled.html#cdLineCap>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< LineJoin>|../func/filled.html#cdLineJoin>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< Stipple>|../func/filled.html#cdStipple>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< Pattern>|../func/filled.html#cdPattern>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< TextSize>|../func/text.html#cdTextSize>: returns a
bounding box usually larger than the text (the computation is based on
the widest character).

=item * L< B< TextOrientation>|../func/text.html#cdTextOrientation>:
does nothing.

=item * L<B<Font>|../func/text.html#cdFont>: italic styles correspond
to the basic styles with an inclination of 15o. See the font mapping
table for the equivalence used to map fonts of the CD library into
AutoCAD fonts. No other fonts are supported.

=back

Font Mapping

CD Fonts

AutoCAD Fonts

System

STANDARD (sem arquivo)

Courier

ROMAN (romanc.shx)

Courier + CD_BOLD

ROMAN_BOLD (romant.shx)

Times

ROMANTIC (rom_____.pfb)

Times + CD_BOLD

ROMANTIC_BOLD (romb_____.pfb)

Helvetica

SANSSERIF (sas_____.pfb)

Helvetica + CD_BOLD

SANSSERIF_BOLD (sasb____.pfb)

=head2 Colors

=over

=item * L< B< Foreground>|../func/attributes.html#cdForeground>:
indexes long int *color in the fixed palette (AutoCAD uses a 256-color
palette - for further detail, see AutoCAD's Reference Manual).

=item * L< B< Background>|../func/attributes.html#cdBackground>: does
nothing, returns CD_WHITE.

=item * L< B< GetColorPlanes>|../func/color.html#cdGetColorPlanes>:
returns 8.

=item * L<B<Palette>|../func/color.html#cdPalette>: does nothing (the
palette is fixed).

=back

=head2 Client Images

=over

=item * All functions do nothing.

=back

=head2 Server Images

=over

=item * All functions do nothing.

=back

=cut