=head1 CD_EMF - Enhanced Metafile Driver (cdemf.h)

This driver allows generating a Microsoft Windows Enhanced Metafile,
the format used by 32-bit Windows systems to store graphics primitives.
Usually, the filename has an extension "*.emf".

The driver works only with the GDI, GDI+ and Cairo base drivers, but
you can use it in other platforms without the risk of compilation
error. If you attempt to create a canvas in another platform, function
B< cdCreateCanvas> will return NULL.

=head2 Use

The canvas is created by means of a call to function L<
B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_EMF, Data),
after which other CD functions can be called as usual. Parameter Data
has the following format:

 "filename widthxheight"     or in C "%s %dx%d"

It must include the filename and the canvas' dimensions. The filename
must be inside double quotes (") if it has spaces. Width and height are
provided in pixels (note the lowercase "x" between them). Resolution
(the number of pixels per millimeter) is always the screen resolution.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. Function
B<cdCreateCanvas> B<opens> the file, and a call to function L<
B<cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to B<close>
the file properly.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

This driver is very platform-dependent.

For further detail, see the B< Behavior of Functions> in each base
driver: L<GDI|win32.html>. To use this driver with a context plus base
driver is necessary to call B< cdUseContextPlus>B<(1)> before creating
the canvas, see the L<GDI+|../drv/gdiplus.html> and
L<Cairo|../drv/cairo.html> base drivers.

However, it should be noted that some functions behave differently from
the basic functions of each platform.

It has been noticed that EMFs, when saved in the Windows 9x
environment, is not totally compatible with EMFs saved in the Windows
NT environment.

If you intend to use B<cdCanvasPlay> to interpret the EMF, then do not
use GDI+ to generate the metafile. GDI+ extensively use internal
transformations that will affect the B< cdCanvasPlay> interpretation.
Also some interior style will not be correctly interpreted.

=head2 Control Functions

=over

=item * L< B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: different from the basic
driver, is implemented. Not implemented using GDI+.

=item * L< B<Clear>|../func/control.html#cdClear>: different from the
basic driver, does nothing.

=back

=head2 Client Images

=over

=item * L< B<GetImageRGB>|../func/client.html#cdGetImageRGB>: does
nothing.

=back

=head2 Server Images

=over

=item * All functions do nothing.

=back

=cut