=head1 GDK Base Driver

This driver represents a basic driver for all system-dependent drivers
implemented in the X-Windows system. The implementation uses the
L<GDK|http://library.gnome.org/devel/gdk/> and
L<Pango|http://library.gnome.org/devel/pango/> API functions. This
driver was designed for the GTK+ version 2, and can be compiled and
used in all systems GDK is supported. For GTK+ version 3 the
L<Cairo|cairo.html> driver is used instead.

This is included in the main library in Linux and BSD. To use it in
other Unices and in Win32 you must link with the B<cdgdk> library
instead of the B<cd> main library.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

=head2 Control

=over

=item * L< B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: does nothing, returns
CD_ERROR.

=back

=head2 Coordinate System and Clipping

=over

=item * L< B<UpdateYAxis>|../func/coordinates.html#cdUpdateYAxis>: the
orientation of axis Y is the opposite to its orientation in the CD
library.

=back

=head2 Primitives

=over

=item * L< B<Begin>|../func/lines.html#cdBegin>: B<C< CD_BEZIER>> and
B<C<CD_PATH>> are simulated with lines.

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over

=item * L< B<LineWidth>|../func/lines.html#cdLineWidth>: if width is 1,
the driver will use 0 for a better performance.

=item * L< B<LineStyle>|../func/lines.html#cdLineStyle>: thick lines
have style only in the line's direction. For example, you will see
small rectangles in a thick dotted line.

=item * L< B<NativeFont>|../func/text.html#cdNativeFont>: also accepts
the X-Windows font string format.

=item * L< B<Font>|../func/text.html#cdFont>: "Courier" is mapped to
"Monospace", "Helvetica" is mapped to "Sans", and "Times" is mapped to
"Serif". Underline and Strikeout are supported.

=back

=head2 Colors

=over

=item * L< B<Palette>|../func/color.html#cdPalette>: When the number of
bits per pixel is smaller than or equal to 8, the driver will use the
system palette to solve colors passed as parameters to the canvas. The
driver allocates colors as they are requested - if a color cannot be
allocated, the closest color is used in the palette. For such, the
driver sees all available colors, in the current application and
others. If one of the applications is terminated, a color in the
palette may become invalid and will only be updated by the driver when
it is requested again. For this reason, a call to B< cdForeground >or
B<cdBackground> or B<cdPalette> is recommended before drawing.

When CD_FORCE is used, the driver forces color allocation. This may
imply changing colors in other applications when a cursor moves in and
out of the canvas. However, if the number of requested colors is
smaller than the maximum number of possible colors in the palette, then
the first colors in the default system palette will be preserved,
minimizing this problem.

When CD_POLITE is used, all colors allocated by the driver are
liberated, and the requested colors are allocated. This is useful for
the application to prioritize the colors that will be allocated,
causing other colors to be mapped to their closest colors.

Note that canvases in the same application interfere with one another,
but when a canvas is terminated it liberates all allocated colors.

=back

=head2 Exclusive Attributes

=over

=item * "B<GC>": returns the GDK graphics context (get only). In Lua is
returned as an user data.

=back

=over

=item * "B<IMGDITHER>": changes how dithering is used in images when
bppE<lt>=8. Can be "NORMAL" or "NONE". Default: "NONE".

=back

=over

=item * "B<IMGINTERP>": changes how interpolation is used in image
scale. Can be "BILINEAR" or "NEAREST". Default: "NEAREST".

=back

=over

=item * "B<ROTATE>": allows the usage of 1 angle and 1 coordinate (x,
y), that define a global rotation transformation centered in the
specified coordinate. Use 1 real and 2 integer values inside a string
("%g %d %d" = angle x y). In this driver will change the current
transformation matrix, if removed will reset the current transformation
matrix.

=back

=over

=item * B<"PANGOVERSION": >returns a string with the Pango version
number. It is empty if the Pango is not available.

=back

=over

=item * B<"UTF8MODE": >enables the usage of the UTF-8 encoding for
strings. It can have the following values: "1" or "0". Default is "0".

=back

=cut