=head1 GL Driver

This driver represents a driver for drawing using L<
OpenGL|http://www.opengl.org/>. The implementation uses the OpenGL
functions only. For the font support, this driver uses the
L<FTGL|http://homepages.paradise.net.nz/henryj/code/index.html#FTGL>
API functions, which it was written against the L<Free
Type|http://www.freetype.org/> library.

The driver is not dependent of system functions. It uses only the
OpenGL portable functions. So if the window canvas changes its size the
attribute "SIZE" must be set with the new size or B<cdCanvasGetSize>
will return an incorrect value.

=head2 Use

The canvas is created by means of a call to the function
L<B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_GL, Data),
after which other functions in the CD library can be called as usual.
The Data parameter string has the following format:

 "widthxheight [resolution]"      in C "%dx%d %g"

It must include the initial canvas' dimensions. Width and height are
provided in pixels (note the lowercase "x" between them). The
resolution is optional, its default value is "3.78 pixels/mm" (96 DPI).

To use this driver, the application must be linked with the "B<cdgl>",
the ftgl library and the OpenGL library. The FTGL library is dependent
also on the GLU library. In UNIX B<cdgl> is also dependent on B<iconv>
and B<fontconfig>.

In Lua, it is necessary to call function B<cdluagl_open() > after a
call to function B<cdlua_open()>, apart from linking with the
"B<cdluagl>" library. This is not necessary if you do require"cdluagl".

=head2 Behavior of Functions

=head2 Control

=over

=item * L< B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: does nothing, returns
CD_ERROR.

=back

=head2 Coordinate System and Clipping

=over

=item * L< B<UpdateYAxis>|../func/coordinates.html#cdUpdateYAxis>: does
nothing.

=item * B<Clipping>: only support rectangular areas.

=item * B<Complex Regions>: not supported.

=back

=head2 Primitives

=over

=item * L< B<Begin>|../func/lines.html#cdBegin>: B<C<CD_PATH>> is
simulated. CD_FILL allows convex polygons only.

=item * Floating point primitives are supported.

=back

=head2 Client Images

=over

=item * Images are bitmaps, and cannot be directly rotated or scaled.

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over

=item * L< B<LineStyle>|../func/lines.html#cdLineStyle>: in B<C<
CD_CUSTOM>>, style patterns more than 16 bits are not supported.

=item * L< B<LineCap>|../func/lines.html#cdLineCap>: does nothing.

=item * L< B<LineJoin>|../func/lines.html#cdLineJoin>: does nothing.

=item * L<B<Stipple>|../func/filled.html#cdStipple>: does nothing.
There is no support for patterns more than 16 bits.

=item * L<B<Pattern>|../func/filled.html#cdPattern>: does nothing.

=item * L<B< FillMode>|../func/filled.html#cdFillMode>: does nothing.

=item * L< B<NativeFont>|../func/text.html#cdNativeFont>: also accepts
the X-Windows font string format.

=item * L< B<Font>|../func/text.html#cdFont>: Uses the same logic of
the L<Simulation|sim.html> driver to find a Truetype font file, but
B<ADDFONTMAP> is not supported.

=back

=head2 Colors

=over

=item * L<
B<Palette>|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/cd/en/func/color.html#cdPalette>:
does nothing.

=back

=head2 Exclusive Attributes

=over

=item * "B<ALPHA>": allows the usage of an alpha channel for the
drawing shapes. Assumes values "1" (active) and "0" (inactive). Default
value: "1".

=back

=over

=item * "B<ANTIALIAS>": allows the use of anti-aliasing for the drawing
shapes. Assumes values "1" (active) and "0" (inactive). Default value:
"1".

=back

=over

=item * B<"GLVERSION": >returns a string with the OpenGL version or
release number. It is empty if the OpenGL is not available.

=back

=over

=item * "B<ROTATE>": allows the usage of 1 angle and 1 coordinate (x,
y), that define a global rotation transformation centered in the
specified coordinate. Use 1 real and 2 integer values inside a string
("%g %d %d" = angle x y).

=back

=over

=item * "B<SIZE>": sets the canvas size. Must be used after the window
is resized. The format is the same of the data parameter in
cdCreateCanvas, I<"widthB<x>height [resolution]"> or in C "I<B<C<%dx%d
%g".>>>

=back

=cut