=head1 CD_IMAGE - Server Image Driver (cdimage.h)

This driver provides access to a Server Image, a memory-based
high-performance image that corresponds to the attributes of the
system's devices. It is used for offscreen drawings.

=head2 Use

The canvas is created by means of a call to function L<
B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_IMAGE, Data),
after which other functions in the CD library can be called as usual.
The function creates a CD canvas based on an existing Server Image. The
Data parameter must be a pointer to an image created with function L<
B<cdCreateImage>|../func/server.html#cdCreateImage>.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. It is important
to note that a call to function L<
B<cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to properly
B<end> the driver. You can call function L<
B<cdKillImage>|../func/server.html#cdKillImage> only after calling
B<cdKillCanvas>.

For use with CDLUA, the Server Image passed as parameter must have been
created with function B<cd.CreateImage> in Lua.

To use this driver in Windows using GDI+ is necessary to call B<
cdUseContextPlus>B<(1)> before creating the canvas.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

This driver is greatly platform-dependent. For further detail, see the
B< Behavior of Functions> in each platform: L<Microsoft Windows
(GDI)|win32.html>, L<Windows Using GDI+|gdiplus.html>, L<X-Windows
(XLIB)|xwin.html>, L<GDK|gdk.html>. However, it should be noted that
some functions behave differently from the basic functions of each
platform.

=cut