=head1 CD_IUP - IUP Driver (cdiup.h)

This driver provides access to an interface element of a IUP canvas.
IUP is a portable user-interface library used to create portable
user-interface applications. See L<IUP
documentation|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup>.

=head2 Use

The canvas is created by means of a call to the function
L<B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_IUP, Data),
after which other CD functions can be called as usual. This function
creates a CD canvas based on the existing IUP canvas. The parameter
Data is a pointer to a handle of the IUP canvas (Ihandle*). For use
with CDLUA, a canvas created with IUPLUA must necessarily be passed as
parameter.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously, but they should
not use the same IUP canvas. It is important to note that a call to
function L< B<cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required
to B<close> the file properly.

The CD canvas is automatically stored in the IUP canvas as the
B<"_CD_CANVAS"> attribute.

To use this driver, it must be linked with the "B<iupcd>" library
available in the IUP distribution.

In Lua, it is necessary to call function B<cdluaiup_open() >after a
call to function B<cdlua_open()>, apart from linking with the
"B<iupluacd>" library. To use with require must be require"iupluacd" or
require"iupluacd51".

To use this driver in Windows using GDI+ is necessary to call B<
cdUseContextPlus>B<(1)> before creating the canvas.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

This driver is greatly platform-dependent, but little dependent on the
IUP library. For further detail, see the B< Behavior of Functions> in
each platform: L<Microsoft Windows (GDI)|win32.html>, L< Windows Using
GDI+|gdiplus.html>, L<X-Windows (XLIB)|xwin.html>. However, it should
be noted that some functions behave differently from the basic
functions of each platform.

=head2 Control

=over

=item * L<B< cdCanvasActivate>|../func/init.html#cdActivate>: updates
the canvas size; the IUP canvas might have been resized.

=back

=head2 Exclusive Attributes

=over

=item * "B<WINDOWRGN>": set the shape of a window to the current
complex clipping region (set only). If data is NULL the region is
reset.

=back

=cut