=head1 CD_METAFILE - CD Metafile Driver (cdmf.h)

This driver allows the generation of a CD Metafile, a very simple
format that includes calls to functions of the CD library and provides
persistence to its primitives.

=head2 Use

The file is created by calling function
L<B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_METAFILE,
Data). The Data parameter is a string that must contain the filename
and the canvas dimensions, in the following format:

 "filename [widthxheight resolution]" or in C use "%s %gx%g %g"

Only the parameter filename is required. The filename must be inside
double quotes (") if it has spaces. Width and height are provided in
millimeters (note the lowercase "x" between them), and their default
value in pixels is INT_MAX for both dimensions. Resolution is the
number of pixels per millimeter; its default value is "3.78 pixels/mm"
(96 DPI). Width, height and resolution are real values.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. It is important
to note that a call to function L<B<
cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to B<close>
the file properly.

B<Images - >Be careful when saving images in the file, because it uses
a text format to store all numbers and texts of primitives, including
images, which significantly increases its size.

B<Extension -> Although this is not required, we recommend the
extension used for the file to be ".MF".

=head2 Behavior of Functions

=head2 Coordinate System and Clipping

=over

=item * L< B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: implemented.

=item * L< B<UpdateYAxis>|../func/coordinates.html#cdUpdateYAxis>: does
nothing.

=item * B<Complex Regions>: not supported.

=item * L<B<Clear>|../func/control.html#cdClear>: removes all
primitives from the picture.

=back

=head2 Attributes

L<B<FontDim>|../func/text.html#cdFontDim>: uses a size estimator,
returning approximate values.

L<B<TextSize>|../func/text.html#cdTextSize>: uses a size estimator,
returning approximate values.

=head2 Colors

=over

=item * L< B< GetColorPlanes>|../func/color.html#cdGetColorPlanes>:
always returns 24.

=back

=head2 Primitives

=over

=item * Floating point primitives are supported.

=back

=head2 Client Images

=over

=item * L<B< GetImageRGB>|../func/client.html#cdGetImageRGB>: does
nothing.

=back

=head2 Server Images

=over

=item * All functions do nothing.

=back

=cut