=head1 CD_NATIVEWINDOW - Native Window Driver (cdnative.h)

This driver provides access to an existing Native Window, a basic
element of the user-interface system. It also provides access to other
native handles like HDC handles in Windows.

=head2 Use

The canvas is created by means of a call to the function
L<B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_NATIVEWINDOW,
Data), after which other functions in the CD library can be called as
usual. This function B<creates> a CD canvas based on an existing system
canvas. The parameter Data is a pointer to a handle of the canvas. It
is system-dependent, having a different meaning in each platform:

B<GDI and GDI+>: can be the handle of the Windows window (HWND), or the
handle of a previously created Device Context (HDC), or can be a string
in the format "hdc width height" or, in C, "%p %d %d". To get the
entire screen use a NULL data.

B<X-Windows>: is a string in the format "display window" or, in C,
"C<%p %lu>" (uses the default screen).

B<GDK and Cairo>: is a GdkDrawable* handle.

The given parameters must exists until B<cdKillCanvas> is called. In
Windows, the HDC is released only if created inside B<cdCreateCanvas>
from an HWND or when data is NULL.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously, but they should
not use the same window, except if you are using a GDI canvas and a
GDI+ canvas at the same time for the same window.

In CDLUA, the creation parameter must be a string in X-Windows and a
userdata in others.

=head2 Exclusive Functions

=head2 void cdGetScreenSize(int *width, int *height, double *width_mm,
double *height_mm); [in C]

cd.GetScreenSize() -E<gt> (width, heigth, mm_width, mm_height:
I<number>) [in Lua]

Equivalent to function L<
B<cdCanvasGetSize>|../func/coordinates.html#cdGetCanvasSize>, but
returns the values relative to the main screen of the window system. It
is not necessary to have an active canvas to call this function.

=head2 int cdGetScreenColorPlanes(void); [in C]

cd.GetScreenColorPlanes() -E<gt> (bpp: I<number>) [in Lua]

Equivalent to function L<
B<cdCanvasGetColorPlanes>|../func/color.html#cdGetColorPlanes>, but
returns the value relative to the main screen of the window system. It
is not necessary to have an active canvas to call this function.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

This driver is very platform-dependent.

For further detail, see the B< Behavior of Functions> in each base
driver: L<GDI|win32.html>, L<GDK|gdk.html> and L<X-Win|xwin.html>. To
use this driver with a context plus base driver is necessary to call B<
cdUseContextPlus>B<(1)> before creating the canvas, see the
L<GDI+|../drv/gdiplus.html>, L<Cairo|../drv/cairo.html> and
L<XRender|../drv/xrender.html> base drivers.

However, it should be noted that some functions behave differently from
the basic functions of each platform.

=head2 Control

=over

=item * L<B< cdCanvasActivate>|../func/init.html#cdActivate>: updates
the canvas size; the window might have been resized. If the canvas was
created using a HDC, the size will not be updated.

B<IMPORTANT>: For the standard Win32 base driver (not GDI+) if your
Windows does not have one of the styles CS_OWNDC or CS_CLASSDC, then a
temporary HDC will be created everytime a B<cdCanvasActivate> is
called. To release this HDC call B<cdCanvasDeactivate> after drawing.
The IupCanvas control of the IUP library in the Win32 driver have the
style, so this should be ignored. But the IupCanvas in the GTK driver
running in Win32 does not have this style so B<cdCanvasDeactivate>
should be used.

=back

=head2 Exclusive Attributes

=over

=item * "B<WINDOWRGN>": set the shape of a window to the current
complex clipping region (set only). If data is NULL the region is
reset.

=back

=cut