=head1 CD_PICTURE - CD Picture (cdpicture.h)

This driver allows the creation of a CD Picture. It store primitives
and attributes in memory that can be played and resized in any other
driver. It does not includes clipping and WriteMode.

=head2 Use

The file is created by calling function
L<B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_PICTURE,
Data). The Data parameter is a string that can contain the resolution
in the following format:

 "[resolution]" or in C use "%lg"

Resolution is the number of pixels per millimeter; its default value is
"3.78 pixels/mm" (96 DPI).

The canvas size is automatically calculated to be the bounding box of
all the primitives inside the picture.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. It is important
to note that a call to function L<B<
cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to release
the picture memory.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

=head2 Coordinate System and Clipping

=over

=item * L< B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: implemented.

=item * L< B<UpdateYAxis>|../func/coordinates.html#cdUpdateYAxis>: does
nothing.

=item * B<B<Clipping>:> not supported.

=item * B<Transformation Matrix>: not supported.

=item * L<cdGetCanvasSize|../func/coordinates.html#cdGetCanvasSize>:
returns the size of the bounding box that includes all primitives
inside the picture.

=back

=head2 Attributes

L<B< WriteMode>|../func/attributes.html#cdWriteMode>: does nothing.

L<B<FontDim>|../func/text.html#cdFontDim>: uses a size estimator,
returning approximate values.

L<B<TextSize>|../func/text.html#cdTextSize>: uses a size estimator,
returning approximate values.

=head2 Colors

=over

=item * L< B< GetColorPlanes>|../func/color.html#cdGetColorPlanes>:
always returns 24.

=back

=head2 Primitives

=over

=item * Floating point primitives are supported.

=back

=head2 Client Images

=over

=item * L<B< GetImageRGB>|../func/client.html#cdGetImageRGB>: does
nothing.

=back

=head2 Server Images

=over

=item * All functions do nothing.

=back

=cut