=head1 CD_PRINTER - Printer Driver (cdprint.h)

This driver provides access to a System Default Printer.

The driver works only with the GDI, GDI+ and Cairo base drivers, but it
is possible to use it in other platforms without the risk of
compilation error. If you attempt to create a canvas in another
platform, the function L<
B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas> will return NULL.

=head2 Use

The canvas is created by calling function L<
B<cdCreateCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdCreateCanvas>(CD_PRINTER, Data),
after which other CD functions can be called as usual. The Data string
has the following format:

 "name [-d]"    or in C style "%s -d"

name is an optional document name that will appear in the printer
queue. Optionally, -d displays the system pre-defined printer dialog
before starting to print, allowing you to configure the printer's
parameters. When using this parameter and the return canvas is NULL,
one must assume that the print was canceled by the user.

Any amount of such canvases may exist simultaneously. It is important
to note that a call to function L<
B<cdKillCanvas>|../func/init.html#cdKillCanvas> is required to properly
send the data to the printer.

B<Pages -> Use L< B<Flush>|../func/control.html#cdFlush> to change to a
new page. You can draw first on page 1, then on page 2 and so forth.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

This driver is very platform-dependent.

For further detail, see the B< Behavior of Functions> in each base
driver: L<GDI|win32.html>. To use this driver with a context plus base
driver is necessary to call B< cdUseContextPlus>B<(1)> before creating
the canvas, see the L<GDI+|../drv/gdiplus.html> and
L<Cairo|../drv/cairo.html> base drivers.

However, it should be noted that some functions behave differently from
the basic functions of each platform.

A printer created in Windows has the same limitations as the L<EMF
driver|emf.html>.

=head2 Control

=over

=item * L< B<Flush>|../func/control.html#cdFlush>: changes to a new
page, preserving the previous one. In the Win32 base driver, after the
first page, function B<cdText> draws the text below its correct
position - we do not know why this happens.

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over

=item * L< B<Hatch>|../func/filled.html#cdHatch>: opaque in Win32 base
driver (GDI).

=back

=head2 Exclusive Attributes

=over

=item * B<"PRINTERNAME">: Returns the name of the selected printer.

=back

=head2 Notes

=head2 Patterns

Usually when printing regions filled with patterns you have to
compensate for the printer high resolution or the pattern will come out
very small. If you don't want to create a high resolution version of
your pattern, then the simplest way is to use B<wdCanvasPattern> to
resize the pattern to an expected millimeter size. This will increase
the pattern raster size so it will be more visible in the printer.

But on some printers the result were not what we expect:

=over

=item * Laser printers automatically increase the real size of the
pattern, so it seems that B<wdCanvasPattern> is not necessary on those
printers.

=item * PDF and Postscript based printer drivers (like Adobe PDF
Creator and CutePDF Writer) need that the pattern has a width multiple
of 8, if not they will appear distorted with an increasing horizontal
shift on every line. This does NOT applies to the CD_PDF or CD_PS
drivers.

=back

=cut