=head1 Microsoft Windows Base Driver

This driver represents a base driver for all system-dependent drivers
implemented in the Microsoft Windows system. The implementation uses
Win32 API graphics functions, the GDI. The driver works better in
Windows NT, but it may also work in Windows 9x/Me.

=head2 Behavior of Functions

=head2 Control

=over

=item * L<B<Flush>|../func/control.html#cdFlush>: does nothing.

=item * L<B<Play>|../func/other.html#cdPlay>: does nothing, returns
CD_ERROR.

=back

=head2 Coordinate System and Clipping

=over

=item * L< B<UpdateYAxis>|../func/coordinates.html#cdUpdateYAxis>: the
orientation of axis Y is the opposite to its orientation in the CD
library.

=back

=head2 Primitives

=over

=item * L<B<Text>|../func/text.html#cdText>: when Write Mode is
B<C<XOR>> or B<C<NOT_XOR>>, the XOR effect is simulated using bitmaps.

=item * B<L<Line|../func/lines.html#cdLine>>: needs to draw an extra
pixel in the final position.

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over

=item * L< B< WriteMode>|../func/attributes.html#cdWriteMode>: for the
client and server image functions, the mode B<C<NOT_XOR>> works as
B<C<XOR>>.

=item * L<B< Stipple>|../func/filled.html#cdStipple>: is always opaque.
If not in Windows NT and if width or height are greater than 8, the
stipple is simulated using non-regular Windows clipping regions and
bitmaps. The simulation is made when filled boxes, sectors and polygons
are drawn.

=item * L<B< Pattern>|../func/filled.html#cdPattern>: If not in Windows
NT and if width or height are greater than 8, the pattern is simulated
using non-regular Windows clipping regions and bitmaps. The simulation
is made when filled boxes, sectors and polygons are drawn.

=item * L<B< TextAlignment>|../func/lines.html#cdLineWidth>: the
vertical alignment of CD_CENTER, CD_EAST, CD_WEST is manually
calculated.

=item * L<B< LineWidth>|../func/lines.html#cdLineWidth>: If not in
Windows NT line width is always 1. If line width is 1, then a cosmetic
pen is used for fast drawing.

=item * B<L< LineStyle|../func/lines.html#cdLineStyle>>: If line width
is 1, the style is a little different from when line width is not 1,
because a cosmetic pen is used for width=1.

=item * L<B< NativeFont>|../func/text.html#cdNativeFont>: also accepts
I<B<"-d">> to show the font-selection dialog box.

=item * L<B<Font>|../func/text.html#cdFont>: "Courier" is mapped to
"Courier New", "Helvetica" is mapped to "Arial", and "Times" is mapped
to "Times New Roman". Underline and Strikeout are supported. The System
font does not have orientation.

=back

=head2 Client Images

=over

=item * B<L< PutImageRGBA|../func/client.html#cdPutImageRGBA>>: Try to
use the new GDI function AlphaBlend, if not available captures an image
from the canvas to blend it manually.

=back

=head2 Colors

=over

=item * L<B<Palette>|../func/color.html#cdPalette>: is useful only if
the device has 256 colors. If it has less than 256 colors, ignore this
function, for it will not make much difference. If two different
canvases have their palettes modified, the last one to be modified will
have the best quality; the other one will not have good quality and the
colors might have a completely different appearance.

=back

=head2 Exclusive Attributes

=over

=item * "B<HDC>": returns the HDC of the Win32 canvas. It can only be
retrieved (get only). In Lua is returned as a user data.

=back

=over

=item * "B<PENFILLPOLY>": controls the polygon filling outline. Assumes
values "1" (active) and "0" (inactive). Default value: "1". When a
filled polygon is drawn, a line in the same color is used to draw the
border which is not included in the filling. Deactivating this
attribute solves the problem of polygons with holes, in which there is
a line connecting the external polygon to the internal polygon.

=back

=over

=item * "B<IMAGEFORMAT>": defines the number of bits per pixel used to
create server images. It uses 1 integer that can have the values: "32"
or "24" (%d). Use NULL to remove the attribute. It is used only in the
B<cdCreateImage>. When not defined, the server images use the same
format of the canvas.

=back

=over

=item * "B<IMAGEALPHA>": allows the usage of an alpha channel for
server images if IMAGEFORMAT=32. The attribute format is a pointer to
the transparency values in a sequence of chars in the same format of
alpha for client images. The attribute is used only in the B<
cdCreateImage> and for every B< cdPutImageRect>, the pointer must
exists while the image exists. The alpha values are transfered to the
image only in B<cdPutImageRect>, so they can be freely changed any
time. It will use the B<AlphaBlend> GDI function. The data is not
duplicated, only the pointer is stored. The size of the data must be
the same size of the image. Use NULL to remove the attribute. Not
accessible in Lua.

=back

=over

=item * "B<IMAGEMASK>": defines a binary transparency mask for server
images. The format is the same of a stipple, can contain only 0s and
1s. Use 2 integers, width and height, and a char pointer to the mask
values inside a string ("%d %d %p"). Use NULL to remove the attribute.
It can not be retrieved (set only). Not accessible in Lua. It will use
the B<MaskBlt> GDI function.

=back

=over

=item * "B<IMAGEPOINTS>": define 3 coordinates of a paralelogram that
will be used to warp server images. Use 6 integer values inside a
string ("%d %d %d %d %d %d" = x1 y1 x2 y2 x3 y3). Use NULL to remove
the attribute. The respective specified points are the upper-left
corner, the upper-right corner and the lower left corner. The drawing
is also affected by the "IMAGEMASK" attribute. It will use the B<
PlgBlt> GDI function.

=back

=over

=item * "B<ROTATE>": allows the usage of 1 angle and 1 coordinate (x,
y), that define a global rotation transformation centered in the
specified coordinate. Use 1 real and 2 integer values inside a string
("%g %d %d" = angle x y). Can not be set if a transformation is already
set.

=back

=cut