=head1 IDLE_ACTION

Predefined IUP action, generated when there are no events or messages
to be processed. Often used to perform background operations.

=head2 Callback

 int function(void); [in C]

Returns: if IUP_CLOSE is returned the current loop will be closed and
the callback will be removed. If IUP_IGNORE is returned the callback is
removed and normal processing continues.

=head2 Notes

The Idle callback will be called whenever there are no messages left to
be processed. But this occurs more frequent than expected, for example
if you move the mouse over the application the idle callback will be
called many times because the mouse move message is processed so fast
that the Idle will be called before another mouse move message is
schedule to processing.

So this callback changes the message loop to a more CPU consuming one.
It is important that you set it to NULL when not using it. Or the
application will be consuming CPU even if the callback is doing
nothing.

It can only be set using B<IupSetFunction>.

=head2 Lua Binding

To modify this action use the function
B<iup>.B<SetIdle>B<(>myfunctionB<)> in Lua. Using nil as a parameter to
remove the association.

=head2 Long Time Operations

If you create a loop or an operation that takes a long time to complete
inside a callback of your application then the user interface message
loop processing is interrupted until the callback returns, so the user
can not click on any control of the application. But there are ways to
handle that:

=over

=item * call B<IupLoopStep> or B<IupFlush> inside the application
callback when it is performing long time operations. This will allow
the user to click on a cancel button for instance, because the user
interface message loop will be processed.

=item * split the operation in several parts that are processed by the
B< Idle> function when no messages are left to be processed for the
user interface message loop. This will make a heavy use of the CPU,
even if the callback is doing nothing.

=item * split the operation in several parts but use a B<Timer> to
process each part.

=back

If you just want to do something simple as a background redraw of an B<
IupCanvas>, then a better idea is to handle the "idle" state yourself.
For example, register a timer for a small time like 500ms, and reset
the timer in all the mouse and keyboard callbacks of the B<IupCanvas>.
If the timer is trigged then you are in idle state. If the B<IupCanvas>
loses its focus then stop the timer.

=head2 Examples

L<Browse for Example Files|../../examples/>

=head2 See Also

L<IupSetFunction|../func/iupsetfunction.html>,
L<IupTimer|../elem/iuptimer.html>.

=cut