=head1 BUTTON_CB

Action generated when a mouse button is pressed or released.

=head2 Callback

 int function(Ihandle* ih, int button, int pressed, int x, int y, char* status); [in C]
 elem:button_cb(but, pressed, x, y: number, status: string) -> (ret: number) [in Lua]

B<ih>: identifies the element that activated the event.

B<button>: identifies the activated mouse button:

=over

IUP_BUTTON1 - left mouse button (button 1);

IUP_BUTTON2 - middle mouse button (button 2);

IUP_BUTTON3 - right mouse button (button 3).

=back

B<pressed>: boolean that indicates the state of the button:

=over

0 - mouse button was released;

1 - mouse button was pressed.

=back

B<x>, B<y>: position in the canvas where the event has occurred, in
pixels.

B<status>: status of the mouse buttons and some keyboard keys at the
moment the event is generated. The following macros must be used for
verification:

=over

iup_isshift(B<status>)

iup_iscontrol(B<status>)

iup_isbutton1(B<status>)

iup_isbutton2(B<status>)

iup_isbutton3(B<status>)

iup_isbutton4(status)

iup_isbutton5(status)

iup_isdouble(B<status>)

iup_isalt(status)

iup_issys(status)

They return 1 if the respective key or button is pressed, and 0
otherwise. These macros are also available in Lua, returning a boolean.

=back

Returns: IUP_CLOSE will be processed. On some controls if IUP_IGNORE is
returned the action is ignored (this is system dependent).

=head2 Notes

This callback can be used to customize a button behavior. For a
standard button behavior use the ACTION callback of the B<IupButton>.

A double click is preceded by two single clicks, one for pressed=1 and
one for pressed=0, and followed by a press=0, all three without the
double click flag set. In GTK, it is preceded by an additional two
single clicks sequence. For example, for one double click all the
following calls are made:

 BUTTON_CB(but=1 (1), x=154, y=83 [  1       ])
 BUTTON_CB(but=1 (0), x=154, y=83 [  1       ])
     BUTTON_CB(but=1 (1), x=154, y=83 [  1       ])     (in GTK only)
     BUTTON_CB(but=1 (0), x=154, y=83 [  1       ])     (in GTK only)
 BUTTON_CB(but=1 (1), x=154, y=83 [  1  D    ])
 BUTTON_CB(but=1 (0), x=154, y=83 [  1       ])

=head2 Affects

L<IupCanvas|../elem/iupcanvas.html>,
L<IupButton|../elem/iupbutton.html>, L<IupText|../elem/iuptext.html>,
L< IupList|../elem/iuplist.html>,
L<IupGLCanvas|../ctrl/iupglcanvas.html>

=cut