=head1 Dialogs

In IUP you can create your own dialogs or use one of the predefined
dialogs. To create your own dialogs you will have to create all the
controls of the dialog before the creation of the dialog. All the
controls must be composed in a hierarchical structure so the root will
be used as a parameter to the dialog creation.

When a control is created, its parent is not known. After the dialog is
created all elements receive a parent. This mechanism is quite
different from that of native systems, who first create the dialog and
then the element are inserted, using the dialog as a parent. This
feature creates some limitations for IUP, usually related to the
insertion and removal of controls.

Since the controls are created in a different order from the native
system, native controls can only be created after the dialog. This will
happen automatically when the application call the B<IupShow> function
to show the dialog. But we often need the native controls to be created
so we can use some other functionality of those before they are visible
to the user. For that purpose, the B<IupMap> function was created. It
forces IUP to map the controls to their native system controls. The
B<IupShow> function internally uses B<IupMap> before showing the dialog
on the screen. B<IupShow> can be called many times, but the map process
will occur only once.

B<IupShow> can be replaced by B<IupPopup>. In this case the result will
be a modal dialog and all the other previously shown dialogs will be
unavailable to the user. Also the program will interrupt in the
function call until the application return IUP_CLOSE or B<IupExitLoop>
is called.

All dialogs are automatically destroyed in B<IupClose>.

=cut