=head1 Tools Executables

=head2 IupView

The B<IupView> application can be used to test LED files, load and save
images for IupImage or for ICONS, display all images and test them when
disabled, display dialogs and popup menus. The B<IupView> application
is available in the distribution files source code and pre-compiled
binaries at the L<Download|download.html> pages.

[IMAGE]

=head2 IupLua Console

The B<IupLua> B<Console> can load and execute Lua scripts using the
IupLua binding. Lua print calls are output in the standard output. The
executable package in Windows also includes the CD and IM libraries,
and a modified version of the L<LuaGL|http://luagl.sourceforge.net>
library.

The B<IupLua> B<Console> is available in the distribution files source
code and pre-compiled binaries at the L<Download|download.html> pages.
The packages are almost ready to be run, but it needs the Visual C++
2005 Run Time
(L<x86|http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=200B2FD9-AE1A-4A14-984D-389C36F85647&displaylang=en>
or L<
x64|http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=90548130-4468-4BBC-9673-D6ACABD5D13B&displaylang=en>)
installed on the system in Windows, and in UNIX it needs that the
LD_LIBRARY_PATH (DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH in MacOSX) environment variable
contains the executable folder, for example:

 export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/home/tecgraf/iup3/bin/$TEC_UNAME

If you build the executable from sources then you will need to do an
addtional step before running it. The easiest one is to copy the
dinamic libraries of IUP, CD, IM and Lua to the executable folder, in
Windows or in UNIX.

[IMAGE]

=cut