=head1 History of Changes in Version 2.x

=head2 CVS (17/Jun/2009)

=head2 General

=over

=item * Changed: the B<IupOleControl> in Lua will not automatically
initialize LuaCOM anymore. The application must manually call
"elem:CreateLuaCOM()". The previous initialization was incorrect
(thanks to Ross Berteig).

=item * Fixed: parameter checking and the return value in Lua for
B<IupListDialog> when type=2.

=item * Fixed: the return value for B<IupGetText> when the user
canceled.

=item * Fixed: The 32 bits version of the IupLua console in Windows
XP64 was not working.

=item * Fixed: IupLua initialization when retrieving the argc/argv
arguments for B<IupOpen>. (Thanks to Ross Berteig)

=item * Fixed: action callback return value in Lua for the
B<IupGetParam> dialog. (Thanks to Zhiwei)

=back

=head2 L<Version
2.7.1|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/2.7.1/> (15/Dec/2008)

=head2 General

=over

=item * Fixed: the iuplua51 makefile where not using the g++ linker, so
require"imlua" failed.

=item * Changed: removed csh dependency from make_uname scripts.

=item * Changed: removed IupSpeech from source and documentation.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * Fixed: IupOpen was crashing if used with NULL parameters.

=item * Fixed: DIRECTORY attribute in IupFileDlg when set to NULL did
an invalid memory access.

=item * Fixed: invalid default value for SCROLLBAR attribute in
IupMultiline and IupList.

=item * Fixed: size of tips window when displaying a multiline string.

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * Fixed: some frame lines where not drawn in IupMatrix.

=back

=head2 L<Version 2.7|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/2.7/>
(14/Oct/2008)

=head2 General

=over

=item * Changed: B< INCOMPATIBILITY> - B<IupOpen> function declaration
now include command line arguments used by X-Windows and GTK.

=item * Changed: B< INCOMPATIBILITY -> "IUP" cursor in Windows renamed
to "HELP" cursor.

=item * Changed: B< INCOMPATIBILITY -> WIN_SAVEBITS renamed to
SAVEUNDER.

=item * Changed: B< INCOMPATIBILITY -> removed old "MOTIF_FONT" and
"WINFONT" attributes. Use only the "FONT" attribute.

=item * Changed: B< INCOMPATIBILITY> - removed old IUP_ANYWHERE and
IupColor definitions.

=item * Changed: B< INCOMPATIBILITY -> B<IupGetType> renamed to
B<IupGetClassName>.

=item * Changed: B<IMPORTANT> - all functions that receive a constant
string now has the "const" modifier for the string parameter
declaration.

=item * Changed: B<IMPORTANT> - Copyright notice modified to reflect
the registration at INPI (National Institute of Intellectual Property
in Brazil). License continues under the same terms.

=item * Changed: B< IMPORTANT> - the support services (Downloads,
Mailing List and CVS) moved from LuaForge to SourceForge.

=item * Changed: All dll8 and dll9 DLLs now have a Manifest file that
specifies the correct MSVCR*.DLL.

=item * Changed: Makefiles for UNIX now uses a compact version of
Tecmake that does not need any installation, just type "make".

=item * Changed: removed "INCLUDE" parameter for FILE_CB callback in
IupFileDlg.

=item * Changed: improved automatic inactive image generation.

=item * Changed: premake files are used now only internally and were
removed from the distribution.

=item * Changed: IupLua3 libraries are not included in the distribution
anymore. They are only available in source code or internally at
Tecgraf.

=item * Changed: All Lua samples now have the extension .wlua, and
contains require"iuplua" and iup.MainLoop() in the code. Thanks to Ryan
Pusztai.

=item * Changed: added traceback information to error message dialog in
IupLua. Thanks to Fred Abraham.

=item * Changed: The IupLua Console now must include require commands
for any additional library.

=item * Fixed: IupView image export in C format.

=item * Fixed: removed MARGIN from IupFrame documentation. IupFrame
does not have a MARGIN attribute.

=item * Fixed: removed MARGIN from IupZbox documentation. IupZbox does
not have a MARGIN attribute.

=item * Fixed: SYSTEM global attribute in Windows, when running Windows
Vista.

=item * Fixed: Improved visual appearance and ticks of bar mode in
IupPPlot.

=item * Fixed: missing IupMessagef export in the DLL.

=item * Fixed: LEDC generated code for 64-bits.

=item * New: B< IMPORTANT> - the "cdiup" and "cdluaiup" libraries moved
from CD to IUP under the name "iupcd" and "iupluacd". But headers and
documentation remains on the CD package. Function names were NOT
changed. This change eliminates a cross-dependency of IUP and CD, now
only IUP depends on CD.

=item * New: "iupluaimglib" library so require"iupluaimglib" can be
used to dinamically load the image library.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access when set FONT to NULL.

=item * Fixed: CARET position when a selection is interactively changed
or when the caret is at the begining of the selection in IupText,
IupMultiline and IupList.

=item * Fixed: TABSIZE IupMultiline attribute scale convertion.

=item * Fixed: invalid character inserted in IupMultiline when opening
a dialog from a Ctrl+key combination.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * Fixed: Removed X run time warning when creating a list.

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * New: FRAMEVERTCOLORL:C, FRAMEHORIZCOLORL:C and CHECKFRAMECOLOR
attributes for IupMatrix.

=item * Fixed: EXTENDED_CB callback was never called in IupColorbar.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access in IupTree when using images with
a color index greater than 128.]

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access in IupTabs when all tabs are
disabled and a next or previous tab button is pushed.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access in IupColorbar.

=item * Fixed: invalid call to CLICK_CB when resizing column in
IupMatrix.

=back

=head2 Version 2.6 (26/Nov/2007)

=head2 General

=over

=item * Changed: SELECTION attribute in IupText now accept values in
reverse order.

=item * Changed: IupView improvements. New functions: "Save All
Images"; "Save All Images in One File". Changes: "Import Image" can
load multiple images in Windows; "Save Image" allow to save in GIF
format.

=item * New: SCROLLBAR attribute for IupMultiline and IupList.

=item * New: WORDWRAP attribute for IupMultiline.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * New: "INCLUDE" parameter for FILE_CB callback in IupFileDlg.

=item * Fixed: FONT creation when system uses a non ANSI charset.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * Fixed: FONT attribute internal storage.

=item * Fixed: IupMapFont interpretation of the size value to use
points in X-Windows Logical Font Description format (XLFD).

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * New: new parameter for IupGetParam to specifiy a file name
string that can be changed using a file selection dialog. Thanks to
Flavia Anjos. New interval step for real and integer interval.

=item * Fixed: for all additional controls the used font follows strict
the FONT attribute. Previously for some of the controls the CD default
font were used causing an inconsistency with the control size
calculation.

=item * Fixed: ACTIVE update in IupVal.

=item * Changed: in IupPPlot ACTIVE attribute renamed to CURRENT to
avoid conflict with the IupCanvas ACTIVE attribute. Fixed DS_MODE and
DS_EDIT return values. Fixed DS_EDIT when set to "NO" from a previously
set to "YES".

=item * Changed: moved IupSbox, IupCbox and IupSpin to the core
library. They do not depend on the CD library.

=back

=head2 IupMatrix

=over

=item * Changed: BGCOLORL:C, FGCOLORL:C and FONTL:C are now handled
different for title columns and title lines. When you set the color or
font of a full line/column it will not affect the title line/column
except when that line/column is the title line/column (lin=0 or col=0).
Individual cell colors are still handled independently.

=item * New: RASTERWIDTHn and RASTERHEIGHTn attributes.

=item * Fixed: EDITION_CB called with invalid self parameter.

=item * Fixed: DROPSELECT_CB called after dropdown list is hidden.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * Fixed: missing IupCells and IupColorbar initialization in
iupcontrolslua_open.

=item * New: added LuaGL binding to the IupLua console executable. So
OpenGL commands can be used in Lua.

=back

=head2 Version 2.6 RC2 (10/May/2007)

=head2 General

=over

=item * New: function IupUpdate to force a redraw of the element and
its children.

=item * New: function IupExitLoop to exit the current message loop. It
is equivalent of returning IUP_CLOSE in a callback.

=item * Changed: now for the IupList when DROPDOWN=Yes the size of the
dropped list will expand to include the largest text.

=back

=head2 Version 2.6 RC1 (15/Apr/2007)

=head2 General

=over

=item * New: functions IupGetChild, IupGetAllAttributes.

=item * New: CLIPBOARD attribute with COPY, PASTE and CUT values for
IupText and IupMultiline.

=item * New: control IupPPlot that uses the PPlot library to draw 2D
plots. Thanks to Marian Trifon.

=item * Changed: LEDC now supports IupCells, IupCbox, IupOleControl and
IupSpin.

=item * Changed: IupMultiline and IupText size calculation. When EXPAND
is different than NO or NULL, the control will ignore its contents when
calculating the control size if SIZE or RASTERSIZE is not set. So now
if text is larger than the multiline and EXPAND is set, the multiline
will not expand to include its contents when the dialog is expanded. In
this case the multiline will be expanded only what the dialog allows it
to expand.

=item * Changed: size update when FONT is set. Now to update the
control size IupRefresh must be called.

=item * Fixed: Added missing documentation of IupGetParent.

=item * Fixed: caps lock key codes.

=item * Fixed: Added missing IupSetAttributeHandle and
IupGetAttributeHandle exports in the DLL.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * Changed: Resource files moved from "iup/lib" to "iup/etc".

=item * Changed: IupFileDlg attributes FILE and DIRECTORY in Windows to
accept paths containing also "/".

=item * Fixed: dialog activation after IupPopup.

=item * Fixed: IUP_CLOSE return in K_ANY and K_* callbacks.

=item * Fixed: WHEEL_CB parameters x and y.

=item * Fixed: IupPopup for menus when used in the Tray if there is no
visible dialogs.

=item * Fixed: FONT attribute initialization when control is not mapped
yet. Affected mainly controls inside other controls.

=item * Fixed: FONT attribute parse when value is invalid.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * New: TOPLEVEL global attribute.

=item * Changed: default IupHelp application in Linux to "firefox".

=item * Changed: some attributes were updating the size of the control
in the dialog. Now to update the control size IupRefresh must be
called.

=item * Fixed: Idle processing.

=item * Fixed: return value of IupLoopStep.

=item * Fixed: invalid resize of IupList when COMBOBOX=YES and an
element is added dynamically.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * New: convertion to string for an Ihandle. Now returns
"IUP(I<type>): I<address>", for example "IUP(dialog): 08C55240".

=item * Changed: IupLua5 executable in Windows to enable GDI+ in CD
library.

=item * Changed: IupLua3 libraries names changed to include "3" as a
suffix.

=item * Fixed: Added missing IupGLIsCurrent binding.

=item * Fixed: error message management when inside a callback in Lua
5.

=item * Fixed: error handling in iuplua_dofile and iuplua_dostring.

=item * Fixed: the second ihandle parameter inside the callabacks in
Lua 3: DROP_CB, DROPSELECT_CB and TABCHANGE_CB.

=item * Fixed: conflict in dialog resize attribute with resize callback
from canvas in Lua 3.

=item * Fixed: getattribute metamethod when value is not a number or
string before calling GetHandle to check if it is a handle.

=item * Fixed: setattribute metamethod when value is stored in C now is
also set to nil in Lua to avoid old invalid values in Lua.

=item * Fixed: IupAlarm optional parameters in Lua 3.

=item * Fixed: missing edit_cb callback definition for IupList in Lua
5.

=item * Fixed: Lua object memory management when destroy is called.

=back

=head2 IupMatrix

=over

=item * New: RELEASE_CB mouse callback.

=item * Changed: DRAW_CB callback to add the CD canvas as the last
parameter. Now the canvas is also available for CDLua.

=item * Fixed: BGCOLOR and FGCOLOR for full lines or full columns in
titles (L:* or *:C).

=item * Fixed: BGCOLOR for titles and empty area to use the parent's
BGCOLOR instead of the dialog BGCOLOR.

=item * Fixed: BGCOLOR_CB and FGCOLOR_CB in Lua when IUP_IGNORE is
returned.

=item * Fixed: setting VALUE attribute when the cell is being edited.

=item * Fixed: redraw when resizing collum and the scroolbar is added
to the canvas in Windows.

=item * Fixed: redraw in SunOS after editing the cell.

=back

=head2 Other IupControls

=over

=item * Changed: in IupTabs, when next or previous tab is selected
using the arrow buttons or arrow keys, inactive tabs are skipped.

=item * Changed: CD calls to use the new CD API available only in CD
version 5.0. So IUP will not be compatible with old CD versions.

=item * Changed: Because of the new parameter of DRAW_CB callback in
IupMatrix, the IupControls Lua binding now depends on the CD Lua
binding.

=item * Fixed: F2 key processing to rename a node in IupTree.

=item * Fixed: focus change when changing the active tab in IupTabs.

=item * Fixed: BUTTON_PRESS_CB and BUTTON_RELEASE_CB binding in Lua 3
for IupDial and IupVal.

=item * Fixed: IupTree rename box position when using scrollbars.

=back

=head2 IupGLCanvas

=over

=item * New: SHAREDCONTEXT attribute.

=item * Fixed: Added missing DLL export IupGLIsCurrent.

=back

=head2 Version 2.5 (31/Mar/2006)

=head2 General

=over

=item * IMPORTANT: New functions IupSetCallback and IupGetCallback to
register callbacks without using a global name. IupGetFunction and
IupSetFunction are still working, but are not used internally anymore.
The new functions speed up the performance of callbacks, and reduce to
zero name conflicts for callbacks in the global name table. It is
recommended that the applications should replace IupSetFunction and
IupGetFunction by IupSetCallback and IupGetCallback. IupLua
applications are automatically benefited.

=item * IMPORTANT: Applications that overload internal callbacks of the
additional controls (like IupMatrix and IupTree) must now use
IupSetCallback and IupGetCallback to do the overloading. And as before
these callback can not be overloaded in Lua.

=item * IMPORTANT: removed the support for callback inheritance. Now
callbacks can only be set in the own element. The only execption is the
K_ANY and the K_* callbacks that continues to be propagated to the
parent of the element with the keyboard focus. (This was a not very
usefull feature, with very few uses. But slows a lot calback management
in C and in Lua. With the new IupGetCallback we were able to remove the
inheritance mecanism for callbacks.)

=item * Changed some function declarations of the main API, some now
use "const char*" in their declaration.

=item * Changed global attributes now are stored only if not processed
by the driver.

=item * IMPORTANT: Changed the definition of Icallback to a simple one
without the variable arguments. Fixed canvas callback parameters, in
the documentation is float, but with the old Icallback definition the
compiler used double. Now must be float.

=item * Changed all the internal attributes now start with the preffix
"_IUP".

=item * Changed the default limit for text in IupText and IupMultiline
to be 231.

=item * New canvas callback FOCUS_CB.

=item * New helper function IupSetAttributeHandle to associate Ihandle*
to attributes using automatic names. Instead of using IupSetHandle and
IupSetAttribute with a new creative name, this function automatically
creates a non conflict name and associates the name with the attribute.
Also new function IupGetAttributeHandle.

=item * New "Pause" button in the IUP Image Library.

=item * Fixed the MULTISELECT_CB callback of the IupList so it does not
need that the ACTION callback is also defined.

=item * Reviewed the popup dialog management. So we improve the
behavior of the IupShow of other dialogs after a IupPopup, and a new
possibility to safely cascade popups.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * IMPORTANT: Global attribute WIN_DEFAULTFONT renamed to
DEFAULTFONT.

=item * Fixed attribute PLACEMENT=NORMAL when the dialog in minimized
or maximized.

=item * Fixed IupPopup for menus, when the menu item callback returned
IUP_CLOSE, the return value is now processed and the application is
closed.

=item * Change WOM_CB and be set also for the dialog.

=item * Changed CoInitialize to
CoInitializeEx[COINIT_APARTMENTTHREADED] and InitCommonControls to
InitCommonControlsEx[ICC_WIN95_CLASSES] in IupOpen.

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * Changed the GETFOCUS_CB and KILLFOCUS_CB callbacks for the
additional controls IupMatrix, IupVal and IupDial, now can be set
without affecting their implementation.

=item * Changed the K_ANY for the additional controls IupTree, IupSpin
and IupColorBrowser, now can be set without affecting their
implementation.

=item * New DOUBLEBUFFER attribute for IupTabs. Default is YES. If NO
will disable the double buffer. This may solve a slow Tabs redraw in
UNIX when the a Tab contains many controls.

=item * New IupVal attributes HANDLER_IMAGE and HANDLER_IMAGE_INACTIVE
that allow the use of images to replace the handler. Thanks to Rodrigo
Espinha.

=item * Reviewed and optimized iupMask code. Added new callback
MATCH_CB.

=back

=head2 IupMatrix

=over

=item * IMPORTANT: Callbacks ACTION and SCROLL_CB were renamed to
ACTION_CB and SCROLLTOP_CB to avoid conflict with the IupCanvas
callbacks also inherited by the IupMatrix.

=item * IMPORTANT: You can not automatically override the KEYPRESS_CB
callback anymore. You must save the original callback and call it from
inside your own.

=item * IMPORTANT: Now when in callback mode much less memory will be
allocated. Also the new callbacks MARK_CB and MARKEDIT_CB can be used
to control the selected cells in callback mode.

=item * Fixed some string buffer sizes to handle very large matrices.

=item * Fixed IupGetAttribute for the VALUE attribute when using
callback mode and retrieving colum or line title values ("0:C" or
"L:0").

=item * Changed "matrx_img_cur_excel" to "IupMatrixCrossCursor". Old
name is still available.

=back

=head2 IupTree

=over

=item * IMPORTANT: The IupTree implementation now uses the KEYPRESS_CB
callback. The K_ANY override support was removed. The K_ANY callback
can be used normally. If the application was using the KEYPRESS_CB, now
it must override it manually, you must save the original callback and
call it from inside your own.

=item * Change the appearance in Windows and Motif are now the same.
Both systems look like the previous Windows implementation with a white
background and some small enhancements.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * IMPORTANT: IupLua3 now supports IupLua5 names. Old IupLua3
names still work, but now all the samples for IupLua5 also work in
IupLua3. The documentation and the examples for the old names were
removed from the manual pages. Old applications using IupLua3 can use
the old names or the new names. This will make easier to old
applications migrate their code to Lua 5. All Lua examples were
re-tested and fixed.

=item * IMPORTANT: In IupLua3 the callbacks in C are registered only
when the application register the callback in Lua, just like in
IupLua5.

=item * IMPORTANT: IupColorBrowser name changed in IupLua3 from "iupcb"
to "iupcolorbrowser".

=item * Fixed documentation of IupGetAllDialogs and IupGetAllNames.
Fixed implementation to match the documentation.

=item * Fixed IupTimer old callback name in IupLua3.

=item * Fixed DROPFILES_CB canvas callback can be now used in Lua for
the controls based in IupCanvas, like IupMatrix and IupTree.

=item * Fixed parameters of the canvas action and scroll_cb callbacks
in Lua 5.

=item * Fixed missing FILE_CB callback in Lua.

=item * Changed all the additional controls now can have the K_ANY,
GETFOCUS_CB and KILLFOCUS_CB callbacks without affecting their internal
implementation.

=item * Changed Lua 5.1 "require" can now be used for all the IupLua
5.1 libraries, but the full library name must be used. For example:
require"iuplua51", require"iupluacontrols51".

=item * Documented the IupLua 5 architecture.

=item * Reviewed and reorganized IupLua3 and IupLua5 code, also cleaned
and simplified. In IupLua3 callbacks are now set only if they are set
by the application.

=item * Changed IupClose can now be called from Lua in Lua 5.

=item * Reviewed and improved the interchange of Ihandle between C and
Lua. The documentation was updated with all the possibilities.

=back

=head2 Version 2.4 (12/Dec/2005)

=head2 General

=over

=item * New attribute ZORDER to change the zorder of any control or
dialog.

=item * New 3STATE attribute for IupToggle to enable a three state text
toggle.

=item * Reviewed and improved the creation of controls, so they can be
added to an already created dialog.

=item * Reviewed and improved the natural size estimation for each
standard controls. The estimation now is the same for Windows and Motif
with some minor differences for border and scrollbar sizes. All the
controls can have sizes bigger or smaller than the natural size using
SIZE or RASTERSIZE attributes (natural size is the size of the control
that fits all of its contents).

=item * Improved FULLSCREEN IupDialog attribute in Windows and Motif,
so the application can set fullscreen and then restore to normal state
any time.

=item * New attribute FLAT for IupButton to create a button with mouse
over activation (Windows and Motif).

=item * New MULTISELECT_CB callback for IupList. It can replace the
action callback for multiple selection lists.

=item * Fixed names of headers, initialization functions and libraries
that did not have the "iup" prefix. Headers "iupolecontrol.h",
"luacontrols.h" and "luagl.h" changed to "iupole.h", "iupluacontrols.h"
and "iupluagl.h". Private headers and declarations removed from
"iup/include" folder. Functions controlslua_open, gllua_open and
iupluaim_open changed to iupcontrolslua_open, iupgllua_open and
iupimlua_open.

=item * New documentation of the IupOleControl control, including a
sample and Lua bindings. Thanks to Vinicius Almendra.

=item * New function IupRefresh to update the size and layout of
controls after changing size attributes.

=item * Exported the internal functions: IupZboxv, IupHboxv, IupVboxv
and IupMenuv.

=item * Fixed several memory leaks. Thanks to L< Visual Leak
Detector|http://www.codeproject.com/tools/visualleakdetector.asp>.

=item * IupView application can now save imagens in C source code
format.

=item * New additional library with several pre-defined images for
buttons and labels. See IupImageLib.

=item * Optimization flags now are ON when building the library in all
platforms.

=item * Now all the predefined dialogs consult the global attribute
IUP_ICON.

=item * Missing key definitions: K_sDEL and K_sINS. This prevented the
Del key to work when CAPSLOCK was active in some controls.

=item * Changed IUP_QUIET environment variable now default is YES.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * Support for MDI (Multiple Document Interface). See IupDialog
documentation.

=item * Fixed IupLabel with IMAGE with invalid focus.

=item * New SUNKEN attribute for IupFrame.

=item * Fixed appearance of IupLabel with IMAGE when ACTIVE=NO.

=item * Fixed initial value in the IupList when EDITBOX=YES.

=item * Now it is not necessary anymore to use the "iup.rc" file for
the HAND cursor. It is now build in.

=item * New value for PLACEMENT attribute, FULL to position the client
area of the dialog in fullscreen.

=item * IupButton and IupToggle with images using Windows XP Visual
Styles now uses a styled border. See IupButton documentation for
samples.

=item * Missing documentation of ENTERWINDOW_CB and LEAVEWINDOW_CB for
IupButton.

=item * Fixed button draw with BGCOLOR and empty text.

=item * New COMPOSITED attribute to create a window with an automatic
double buffer for all controls.

=item * New LAYERED and LAYERALPHA attributes to set and configure
layered windows using transparency.

=item * Fixed image offset in IupButton.

=item * Fixed invalid redraw for IupLabel using an IupImage when inside
a IupTabs or IupSbox.

=item * Added an "ifndef IUP_NO_ABNT" enclosing the ABNT keyboard
management so it will be easier to ignore this code from the makefile.

=item * Default FONT in Windows XP is now the Tahoma font.

=item * BGCOLOR for canvas was not being updated correctly when changed
after canvas creation.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * SHOWDROPDOWN now works also in Motif.

=item * Removed horizontal scrollbar parameter from simple IupList
(DROPDOWN=NO and EDITBOX=NO) to made it compatible with the other lists
(including the simple IupList in Windows).

=item * Fixed KILLFOCUS_CB and GETFOCUS_CB for IupList with
DROPDOWN=YES or EDITBOX=YES.

=item * Fixed invalid IupList resize when DROPDOW=Yes after inserting
elements in the list.

=item * New BACKINGSTORE IupCanvas attribute so the backing store can
be disabled.

=item * Changed IupToggle with IMAGE and IMPRESS to behave like in
Windows, where the button border is always shown.

=item * Fixed error in menu item initialization.

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * IMPORTANT: for best results CD version 4.4 should be used.

=item * Fixed IupSpin keyboard response and mouse press & hold
response.

=item * New MULTISELECTION_CB callback for IupTree.

=item * New IupCells control. It is an application controlled matrix.
More simple and faster than IupMatrix. Can also span cells. Thanks to
Andr Clinio.

=item * New IupCbox control for concrete layout positioning.

=item * Fixed IupTabs tab activation using mouse. It could activate a
different tab using button press in one tab and button release in
another tab.

=item * Fixed spin buttons were not calling the user callback in
IupGetParam.

=item * Fixed IupVal non effective increment using keyboard when at
minimum value.

=item * Fixed invalid IupSetAttribute for scrollbar parameters in
IupTree that affects navigation of two or more trees in the same
application.

=item * Fixed keyboard usage when CAPSLOCK is active for IupVal,
IupTabs and IupDial.

=item * New functions iupMaskRemove and iupmaskMatRemove to remove the
iupMask from a control.

=item * New RENAME action attribute for the IupTree.

=item * New attribute TABORIENTATION to change the tab text
orientation. The active tab text is now bold.

=item * Changed CARET and SELECTION attributes of the IupTree when
using an in-place rename text box, to RENAMECARET and RENAMESELECTION.
This will avoid conflict with the SELECTION_CB callback in IupLua3.

=back

=head2 IupMatrix

=over

=item * Redefined REDRAW policy to a more precise and effective one. No
redraw is done when the application sets cell, line or column graphics
attributes attributes: B<0:0>, B<0:C>, B<L:0>, B< L:C>, B<ALIGNMENTn>,
BGCOLORL:*, BGCOLOR*:C, BGCOLORL:C, FGCOLORL:*, FGCOLOR*:C,
B<FGCOLORL:C>, FB<ONT>L:*, FB<ONT>*:C, B<FONTL:C>. Global and size
attributes always automatically redraw the matrix.

=item * Improved double click editing in Motif. Since OpenMotif 2.2.3
the double click to edit the cell works fine. For previous version
there is still a workaround to show the controls and the need to click
again in the control so it get the focus.

=item * All the edition mode code were rewritten and reorganized in a
separated module. Any old code was removed and cleaned.

=item * Small change in focus feedback, its area was reduced to two
pixels in each cell border.

=item * Cell focus management code reorganized to a more simple and
efficient version.

=item * New SORTSIGNI<C> attribute to show a sort sign (up or down
arrow) in the column C title.

=item * New drawing in double buffer mode to minimize flicker.

=item * Fixed dropdown feedback drawing.

=item * Fixed focus feedback after double click editing.

=item * The alignment of the text in a cell with a dropdown feedback
now considers the horizontal space occupied by the feedback.

=item * The DRAW_CB callback drawing area now does not includes the
focus feedback area if HIDEFOCUS=NO (the default).

=item * NUMCOL_VISIBLE and NUMLIN_VISIBLE now when retrieved returns
the current number of visible lines.

=item * Fixed problem after trying to edit a non editable cell the
focus gets lost.

=item * Reviewed documentation and behavior of marks.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * IupLua5 source code is now 100% compatible with Lua 5.1.

=item * The iuplua binding and all its libraries can now be dinamically
loaded in Lua 5. IupOpen will be automatically called.

=item * iupkey_open can now be called from Lua 5, using iup.key_open.

=item * New IupGetParam binding.

=item * Changed the keys definitions (K_*) in Lua so now they are
exactly the same as the definitions in C.

=item * Fixed invalid IupGetAllNames in IupLua5. Fixed missing
IupGetAllNames binding in IupLua5.

=item * Fixed IupTree EXECUTELEAF_CB callback in IupLua5. It was
expecting an invalid extra parameter.

=item * Fixed error in IupTabs memory initialization in IupLua5.

=item * Fixed missing IupGetText binding.

=item * Fixed missing pre-defined masks for iupMask.

=item * Fixed missing isxkey macro binding.

=item * Fixed missing callback scroll_cb in IupLua3.

=item * Fixed missing IupVersion documentation and binding.

=item * Fixed IupSetGlobal and IupStoreGlobal in IupLua5.

=back

=head2 Version 2.3.1 (18/Apr/2005)

=head2 General

=over

=item * New support for 64-bits Linux.

=item * New global attribute DLGBGCOLOR.

=item * Changed the KEYPRESS_CB and K_ANY callback are now compatible
with Portuguese Brazilian ABNT keyboard layout in Windows and Linux.

=item * Changed key names B<K_quoteright> and B<K_quoteleft> renamed to
B<K_apostrophe> and B< K_grave>, but there are backward compatible
defines.

=item * Fixed IupOpen/IupClose for correct
initialization/de-initialization.

=item * Fixed IupGetGlobal to retreive first from the driver.

=item * Fixed IupDestroy for correct memory deallocation.

=item * Fixed IupLoadImage to include BGCOLOR information. New function
IupSaveImage.

=item * New Guide / C++ Usage section in the documentation, with
additional C++ wrappers contributed by some users. Thanks to Danny
Reinholds, Sergio Maffra and Frederico Abraham.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * Fixed K_ANY duplicate calls for some keys.

=item * Fixed popup menu bug. Sometimes when selecting an item the
callback was not called.

=item * Changed IupText and IupMultiline now can have the ALIGNMENT
attribute.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * Fixed use of variable parameter arguments in Motif calls to
correct 64-bits compatibility.

=item * Fixed some small bugs in IupDestroy. GETFOCUS_CB callbacks were
called during dialog destroy. Menu bars were incorrectly destroyed.

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * Changed IupGetParam now uses only the number of lines to
determine the number of parameters. The last 0 is not necessary
anymore.

=item * Fixed bug in IupColorBrowser destroy.

=item * Fixed IupTree initialization for LED usage.

=item * New IupTree feature to rename a node in place.

=item * New IupColorbar control. It is a palette of colors to allow the
selection of primary and secondary colors. Thanks to Andr Clinio.

=back

=head2 IupGLCanvas

=over

=item * New function IupGLIsCurrent.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * Fixed callbacks for IupDial in IupLua5.

=back

=head2 IupView

=over

=item * Fixed data initialization in Motif.

=item * New menu items to save images in individual LED and Lua text
files, and in Windows ICON files.

=item * New menu item to load an image using IM.

=back

=head2 Version 2.3 (16/Mar/2005)

=head2 General

=over

=item * Download, Discussion List, Submission of Bugs, Support Requests
and Feature Requests, are now available thanks to LuaForge site.

=item * New organization of the documentation.

=item * New MacOS X libraries using OpenMotif and gcc.

=item * New CARET_CB callback for the IupText, IupMultiline and IupList
controls. It is called every time the caret changes its position.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * IMPORTANT: Now the canvas background color is only redrawn if
the ACTION callback is not defined. When defined the application must
draw all the canvas contents. This will optimize the redraw of canvas
based controls and application canvases. The TRANSPARENT value for the
BGCOLOR is not supported anymore.

=item * New attribute IMMARGIN to control the spacing between the
border and the image in IupButton.

=item * Optimized the IupButton and IupLabel drawing when IMAGE is
specified.

=item * Fixed incorrect stop for the IupTimer. Improved start and stop
control.

=item * Flicker now is significantly reduced. CLIPCHILDREN=YES is now
default. IupFrame background drawing optimized.

=item * New dialog attribute "CONTROL" that enable the embedding of the
dialog inside another window. Used by LuaCOM to create OLE (ActiveX)
controls implemented in Lua.

=item * New IupText attribute "PASSWORD" to hide the typed character.

=item * IUP is now compatible with Windows XP Visual Styles. See the
Win32 driver documentation.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * Fixed invalid return value when retreiving the FONT attribute.

=item * Added backward compatibility code for Motif 1.2. Must edit
makefile to add the file "src/mot/ComboBox1.c".

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * Missing support for IupList with EDITBOX=YES in iupMask.

=item * BGCOLOR for images were ignored in the IupTree.

=item * Now some matrix cell attributes are not inherited from parent.
Like "L:C", "ALIGNMENT*", "FGCOLOR*", "BGCOLOR*", "FONT*", "WIDTH*" and
"HEIGHT*", for optimization reasons.

=item * IupTree now uses double buffer for optimal drawing.

To avoid flicker during resize in Windows, do not use it inside a
IupFrame, and use CLIPCHILDREN=YES.

=item * New utility functions: IupTreeSetAttribute,
IupTreeStoreAttribute IupTreeGetFloat, IupTreeSetfAttribute,
IupTreeGetAttribute, IupTreeGetInt.

=item * New IupMatrix callback DRAW_CB to allow a custom drawing of the
cell contents.

=item * New IupTree DRAGDROP_CB callback.

=item * New IupSpin and IupSpinbox utility functions.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * Fixed ihandle_gettable in iuplua.lua when iupGetTable is nil
when object is created in C.

This affected the object returned by iup.LoadImage.

=item * Fixed Zbox children names initialization.

=item * Missing DROPFILES_CB callback management.

=item * Missing FGCOLOR_CB and BGCOLOR_CB callback management for the
IupMatrix. The returned values order was inverted.

=item * Missing MAP_CB callback management for IupCanvas in IupLua3.

=back

=head2 Version 2.2.2 (07/Oct/2004)

=head2 General

=over

=item * Fixed bug in IupGetFile FILTER initialization.

=item * Improved IMINACTIVE automatic generation algorithm.

=item * New zip package for download with iup images in LED format.

=item * New application IupView to load and display LED files.

=item * Fixed some attribute storage in iupMask and IupGetParam. Fixed
bug when several masks are used in the same dialog.

=item * Replaced the internal Lua4 code for a smaller hash table
module. Thanks to Danny Reinhold.

=item * Fixed IupGetParam invalid memory access.

=item * IupNextField and IupPreviousField now only changes the focus
for the checked toggle inside a radio.

=item * IupGetAttributes now returns the pointer address if attribute
is a known internal pointer data.

=item * Now pressing Enter over a button activates it, even if it is
not the DEFAULTENTER button.

=item * Esc and Backspace keys now will be translated even if CapsLock
is active.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * New ENTERWINDOW_CB and LEAVEWINDOW_CB for buttons.

=item * Fixed double click for button, toggle and list were not being
considered as two clicks.

=item * removed FLAT style from toggles with IMPRESS image. Fixed size
of toggle with image.

=item * New attribute SHOWDROPDOWN to open the dropdown list
programmatically.

=item * Removed a black border around IupMultiline and IupText.

=item * Removed the TABSTOP for non marked Toggles inside a Radio.

=item * Fixed invalid memory access when menu item is activated and all
dialog controls are disabled.

=item * Fixed IupFileDlg ignored the x,y parameters of IupPopup.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * Enter in IupMultiline activated the DEFAULTENTER button instead
of adding a new line.

=item * Fixed invalid memory access when set FONT to NULL.

=item * Fixed ACTION callback called for IupList when list contents
were cleared.

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * IupTree and IupTabs did not propagate to the parent the K_ANY
callback for non used keys.

=back

=head2 IupMatrix

=over

=item * The TITLEs, BGCOLORs, FGCOLORs and FONTs attributes were
incorrectly set after a DELLIN, ADDLIN, DELCOL or ADDCOL.

=item * In Windows when the user double click a dropdown list now will
start opened.

=item * The user callback scroll_cb was incorrectly registered.

=item * New "HIDEFOCUS" attribute to hide the focus mark when drawing.

=item * Now in MARK_MODE=CELL and MULTIPLE=YES you can click on the
title area to mark a full line or collumn at once.

=item * New BGCOLOR_CB and FGCOLOR_CB callbacks.

=item * Fixed when MARKMODE=LIN/COL/LINCOL if the first cell in the
line/column is selected the click in the title area was ignored.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * Removed "print" debug calls in internal code.

=item * IupGetAttribute/iup.GetAttribute now returns an user data if
attribute is a known internal pointer data.

=item * New IupGetAttributeData/iup.GetAttributeData that returns the
data always as an used data.

=item * Fixed incomplete initialization of image object returned by
IupLoadImage.

=back

=head2 Version 2.2.1 (25/Aug/2004)

=head2 General

=over

=item * Fixed some minor bugs introduced in version 2.2.

=item * Fixed HTML help navigation.

=item * For disabled buttons and toggles when the IMINACTIVE is not
defined by IMAGE is defined, we replace the non transparent colors by a
darker version of the background color creating the disabled effect.

=item * New key K_PAUSE.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * Fixed dynamic cursor creation.

=item * Toggle with inactive image could be enabled/disabled only once.

=item * Fixed toggle in Radio behavior.

=item * Some keys were not being treated correctly.

=item * Improved key codes management.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * Fixed IupList setattribute VALUE and list items activated the
ACTION callback.

=back

=head2 Controls

=over

=item * Circular IupDial now uses abssolute angle.

=item * CARET did not work when set inside EDITION_CB in IupMatrix.

=item * Check for double initialization of IupControls.

=item * Better resize management for IupVal and IupDial.

=item * IupControls now depends on the CD library version 4.3.3 in
Motif.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * Wrong implementation of DROPCHECK_CB.

=back

=head2 Version 2.2 (11/Aug/2004)

=head2 INCOMPATIBILITIES

=over

=item * Definition of K_parenleft changed to K_parentleft in C and all
Lua bindings.

=item * Major IupLua5 change (see IupLua section below).

=item * IupLua4 is not supported.

=item * Motif 1.x is not supported.

=back

=head2 General

=over

=item * Documentation in Portuguese removed from the manual.

=item * Changed and documented the default palette used in IupImage.

=item * IupImage can now have up to 256 colors.

=item * New mouse wheel callback "WHEEL_CB" for Windows and Motif. If
not defined the wheel will automatically scroll the canvas vertically.

=item * Changes on global attributes:

"COMPUTERNAME", "USERNAME" - now implemented also in Motif.

"COPYRIGHT" - not documented

"SCREENDEPTH", "SYSTEMVERSION" - new for Windows and Motif

"SYSTEM" - Implementation were different from the documentation

"CURSORPOS" was documented as if it was only for Windows.

"LOCKLOOP" now implemented also in Motif..

=item * The definitions IUP_SBDRAGV and IUP_SBDRAGH were not
documented.

=item * Callback MENUSELECT_CB changed to HIGHLIGHT_CB. Now implemented
also in Motif.

=item * New menu callback MENUCLOSE_CB.

=item * New utility functions IupMessagef and IupGetInt2.

=item * Improved visual appearance of IupScanf, IupAlarm and
IupListDialog.

=item * New creation attribute "SEPARATOR" for IupLabel so you can
create vertical or horizontal line separators.

=item * New IupGetText predefined dialog.

=item * Now all the predefined dialogs consult the global attribute
IUP_PARENTDIALOG.

=item * New "HELP_CB" callback for all interactive controls.

=item * The "KEYPRESS_CB" callback now will be called repeatedly if the
key is pressed and held.

=item * IupList can now have an edit box associated.

=item * The OLD newfocus parameter of the KILLFOCUS_CB is now NULL
always, in Windows and Motif.

=item * The BGCOLOR color for IupImage transparency was not according
to the documentation.

It was using the default background color of the dialog.

Now it uses the BGCOLOR of the control where it is inserted.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * Menus for notification icons (system tray) were not working
correctly.

=item * Cursors in Windows now accept more than 2 colors and can have
size different from 32x32.

=item * IupImage was rewritten in Windows to be more simple and
flexible. This also solved some weird button backgrounds in gcc3.

=item * New global attributes "SHIFTKEY" and "CONTROLKEY" can be "ON"
or "OFF", return the the key state (windows only).

=item * The default size for buttons in Windows was increased by 2
characters.

=item * Returning IUP_CLOSE in a SHOW_CB of an IupPopup wasn't closing
dialog.

=item * IupOpen instead of initializing OLE, now only initializes COM
(CoInitialize).

=item * The border of buttons are now drawn by a system function
instead of simulated.

=item * New attribute "PLACEMENT" to show the dialog maximized or
minimized.

=item * In IupFileDlg when browsing for folder it will use a new
interface, with a resizable dialog and other features.

Also in IupFileDlg fixed start position for IupPopup. New file
selection callback and preview area. IupFileDlg was not using the
IUP_PARENTDIALOG attribute. Default value for IUP_NOOVERWRITEPROMPT was
wrong. ALLOW_NEW was inconsistent with the documentation.

=item * The button callback now is called only when the button is
released inside the button area.

=item * WOM callback renamed to WOM_CB.

=item * New "HELPBUTTON" attribute for the dialog.

=item * The menu item now accepts auxiliary bitmaps.

=item * When the dialog has a multiline and the user press ESC the
window was improperly closed.

=item * Fixed comboox resize feedback. When resizing the dialog the
combobox was temporarily opened.

=item * IupCanvas was not receiving arrow keys events correctly in
keypress_cb.

=item * IupHide now can close popup dialogs.

=item * Attribute TABSIZE for IupMultiline in Windows was not
documented.

=item * Default value for attribute BGCOLOR for IupCanvas in Windows
was not documented.

=item * Direction keys now are processed by the ACTION callback for
IupText.

=item * The GETFOCUS_CB and KILLFOCUS_CB management for the controls
was reviewed and optimized.

GETFOCUS_CB now works for toggle and button.

=item * First RESIZE_CB of the canvas received a wrong canvas size.

=item * Label alignment for images was always center.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * New global attribute: "MOTIFVERSION".

=item * IUP_SBDRAGV and IUP_SBDRAGH were not implemented.

=item * HIGHLIGHT_CB menu item callback.

=item * "COMPUTERNAME", "USERNAME" and "LOCKLOOP" global attributes.

=item * IupMessage now uses native XmMessageBox.

=item * The overwrite confirmation dialog was closing the file open if
the user answered "No".

=item * Implemented the IUP_NOOVERWRITEPROMPT attribute for IupFileDlg.

=item * The dropdown list now uses the Motif 2 combobox widget. So IUP
is not compatible with Motif 1.x anymore.

=item * Now the GETFOCUS callback is also invoked when the list is
dropdown.

=item * KEYPRESS_CB is now called only for IupCanvas.

=back

=head2 Controls

=over

=item * DEFAULTESC and DEFAULTENTER were missing in IupGetColor.

=item * New function IupLoadImage that uses the library IM to load an
image file (implemented in an additional library).

=item * New dialog IupGetParam, similar to IupScanf but uses variable
controls for fields.

=item * IupTabs now uses the FGCOLOR for the text color.

=item * ICTL_DASHED was missing in the documentation of IupGauge.

The control now has the attributes MIN and MAX just like the valuator.

=item * For IupVal and IupDial, new keyboard and mouse wheel support.

New attribute "SHOWTICKS" to show tick marks around the valuator.

New attribute "UNIT" to change the angle unit to degrees in the dial.

Completely changed visual of the controls.

The controls can now be deactivated and it displays focus feedback.

=item * Updated visual for the IupGauge and IupTabs controls.

=item * In IupTabs the popup menu to select a tab sometimes did not set
the new tab.

=back

=head2 Matrix

=over

=item * Documentation reviewed and reorganized.

=item * Returning IUP_CLOSE in CLICK_CB was not closing application.

=item * The scrollbar drag will now simultaneously scroll the matrix.

=item * New callback "DROPCHECK_CB" to aid the dropdown feedback in the
cell.

=item * New utility functions: IupMatSetAttribute, IupMatStoreAttribute
IupMatGetFloat, IupMatSetfAttribute, IupMatGetAttribute, IupMatGetInt.

=item * Fixed some display erros in Windows because of an error in the
size of the scrollbar.

=item * In Windows pressing a key in a menu activates the k_any of the
last active element. In the matrix this turns into an infinit loop. The
matrix now uses the keypress_cb instead of the k_any callback.

=item * Fixed empty selection in the dropdown list if the user press a
regular key to start editing the cell.

=item * Fixed invalid dropdown value if the user changed focus to the
scrollbars.

=item * CLICK_CB was called twice in a double click (press+release).

=item * In Motif, the textbox and the dropdown did not open when you
double click a cell. But now the user still needs to click again in the
control to put it into focus.

=item * After editing the cell in the last line, now the focus goes to
the column on the right at the last line, instead of the first line.

=item * BGCOLOR now works also for titles.

=item * FONT attribute now can be set/get just like BGCOLOR and
FGCOLOR. But the cell size is calculated always from the matrix
attribute IUP_FONT.

=back

=head2 Tree

=over

=item * Documentation reviewed and reorganized.

=item * CTRL and SHIFT accepts only values IUP_YES and IUP_NO.

Default value of SHIFT and CONTROL is NO, it was NULL.

=item * Pressing Space without Control now activates the RENAMENODE_CB
callback.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * The selection callback wasn't working in Lua 5 binding.

=item * MOUSEMOVE_CB in Dial control was receiving wrong angle
parameter in Lua 5 binding.

=item * IupGLCanvas wasn't working in Lua 5 binding.

=item * Major IupLua5 change.

It now complies to LTN7 (namespaces). All exported functions are
accessed only through B<iup.FunctionName> (no Iup prefix anymore)

All callbacks in Lua are now access through their exact name in the C
API. Mostly add sufix "_cb" to name (most common callbacks renamed for
ex: getfocus_cb, killfocus_cb). Also some names were fix: valuecb
E<gt>E<gt> value_cb and mapcb E<gt>E<gt> map_cb.

Numeric definitions also changed: IUP_DEFAULT E<gt>E<gt> iup.DEFAULT

String definitions for values are no longer supported, use "YES", "NO",
etc.

iupcb changed to iup.colorbrowser.

=item * Use LoadLibrary to load IUP from Lua.

=item * There was no stack pop in color processing loop fo IupImage in
IupLua5.

=item * IupLua4 is not supported anymore.

=back

=head2 LEDC

=over

=item * Added support for IupTree and IupSbox.

=item * Fixed include for IupColorBrowser.

=item * Fixed small invalid memory access.

=back

=head2 Version 2.1 (18/Feb/2004)

=head2 General

=over

=item * New split-panel control: IupSbox

=item * IupTree and IupMatrix libraries are now part of iupcontrols

=item * New functions to traverse IUP controls: IupGetNextChild,
IupGetBrother, IupGetParent

=item * IupAppend accepts elements other than predefined internal
controls (allowing CPI containers)

=item * Focus now may go to CPI controls

=item * Attribute IUP_X, IUP_Y are now valid for every control that has
a native representation (returns the position of the control in screen
coordinates)

=item * CURSORPOS global attribute is now returned from the driver

=item * IupGetFile was not allowing new files and should not change
user directories

=item * IupGetFile was not accepting long directories

=item * IupAlarm does not take [ENTER] as button1 click anymore

=item * IupScanf does not accept "," when option is float

=item * Windows 95 is no longer supported

=back

=head2 IupTree

=over

=item * Trying to get attribute NAME for and invalid ID returns NULL

=item * Fixed attributes IUP_CTRL e IUP_SHIFT for mouse interaction

=back

=head2 IupMatrix

=over

=item * Special keys such as backspace, control+c, etc. are now ignored
when not in edit mode

=item * leaveitem/enteritem were not being generated when the focus was
leaving or entering the matrix

=item * leaveitem/enteritem should not being called when the cell
enters edition mode through the mouse

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * IupOpen/IupClose now initializes OLE
(OleInitialize/OleUninitialize)

=item * ENTERWINDOW/LEAVEWINDOW reimplementation. LEAVEWINDOW does not
fail anymore

=item * Mouse hook removed. Better performace

=item * New attributes TRAY, TRAYTIP and TRAYIMAGE and new callback
TRAYCLICK_CB which allows a dialog to be put in the tray

=item * Action in IupText now responds to the [ENTER] key

Some keys were not working with keypress callback: \ ] [ ' ; / . ,

=item * New attribute NATIVEPARENT, which makes any dialog in Windows
able to be parent of a IUP dialog (even from other toolkits)

=item * Better protection dealing with other processes messages

=item * IupFileDialog when used to get directory was not updating
STATUS attribute correctly

=item * IUP_APPEND small memory problem fix

=item * atexit removed

=item * KILLFOCUS_CB and GETFOCUS_CB were not being called when focus
goes to the menu

=item * MAP_CB in a canvas is now called before RESIZE_CB (like the
Motif driver)

=item * ALT-F4 was not working to close application

=item * Images sometimes show black using Visual C: do not use option
in Visual C 6.0 /NODEFAULTLIB:libcd

=item * IUP_TIP does not show when the fade effect is on: MS fixed the
problem, use autoupdate

=back

=head2 IupLua 3.2, 4.0, 5.0

=over

=item * Functions exported to Lua: IupGetType, IupGetParent,
IupGetNextChild, IupGetBrother

=item * IupTimer, IupSbox binding

=item * IupTreeGetTable, IupTreeSetTableId, IupTreeGetTableId functions
created

=item * Several bug fixes in IupLua 5.0

=item * New function iuplua_pushihandle, iuplua_dofile and
iuplua_dostring, IupGetFromC

=item * If iuplua_dofile and iuplua_dostring are used errors are
reported through _ERRORMESSAGE function

=item * Default _ERRORMESSAGE function shows a dialog with the error

=item * IupLua5: Removed Lua redefinitions of dofile and dostring

=item * Minor bug in IupTree function TreeSetValue

=item * IupListDialog was not returning a table as it should when in
multiple mode

=back

=head2 IupVal

=over

=item * Attribute IUP_VALUE wasn't taking effect when set before
mapping

=item * CD canvas was being altered during mouse movement event

=back

=head2 Manual

=over

=item * CPI manual revision

=item * IupLua manual revision

=item * Several examples revised

=item * Controls section rearranged

=back

=head2 Distribution

=over

=item * README on how to compile IUP with tecmake

=back

=head2 Version 2.0.1 (31/Jul/2003)

=head2 General

=over

=item * Attribute IUP_TYPENAME replaced by IupGetType function

=item * minor bugs introduced in 2.0 because of internal old misuse of
the hash table.

=item * Following controls were not working with LED: val, dial, gl,
matrix, tree.

=item * New canvas attribute "DRAWSIZE" that returns the drawing area
of the canvas (in Windows we may have an addicional border included in
"RASTERSIZE").

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * Memory invasion when eliminating an item from an IupList with
multiple items.

=item * Callback IUP_OPEN_CB sometimes was not being called.

=item * New dialog attribute "BRINGFRONT" which forces dialog to be the
window in the front. Useful for multithreaded applications.

=item * Attribute ACTIVE was not working with radio control.

=item * Now folder selection in IupFileDlg uses IUP_DIRECTORY as a
start path.

=item * Now when ESC or ENTER is pressed KEYPRESS_CB is generated

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * Dropdown were becoming unstable when VALUE attribute is set
after IupMap.

=item * Dropdown were not being positioned accordingly.

=item * IupList was not selecting the first item.

=item * IupTimer callback were called only once.

=item * The value "BGCOLOR" in a value of an image color table index
appeared with erroneous color.

=item * keyboard and mouse callbacks were not being called when in full
screen.

=back

=head2 LEDC

=over

=item * Updated to reflect 2.0 changes like "iupmatrx" to "iupmatrix".

=item * Now tests if name is not NULL before using IupSetHandle.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * New binding for Lua 5. This is beta version since uses old
notation "iuplabel" instead of "iup.label".

=back

=head2 Version 2.0 (23/Jun/2003)

=head2 General

=over

=item * IUP has undergone a large internal reorganization, but no
structural or algorithmic changes have occurred. The purpose of this
reorganization was to standardize function, variable and module
nomenclature. This process is not yet complete, but the few remaining
details will be solved in the next version.

=item * Table Hash was completely replaced with a modified version of
Lua 4. This version is internal of IUP and does not affect
applications. This has brought us a better management of the memory
used by attributes.

=item * The CPI was changed to allow the creation of native controls,
as well as controls based on IupCanvas. The internal controls were not
yet rewritten over the new CPI - this will be done progressively in the
next versions.

=item * The Ihandle definition changed from "void" to "typedef struct
Ihandle_ Ihandle;". This has direct implications on C++ applications
that did not do pointer typecast. In C++, code errors might occur and,
in C, there might be warnings.

=item * New control IupTimer. Allows creating timers in Windows and
Motif.

=item * New callback "KEYPRESS_CB". Allows intercepting any key and
replacing all callbacks "K_xxx".

=item * IupHelp was rewritten in a simpler way. In Windows, it simply
uses the system's configuration to open a URL and, in UNIX, it directly
runs Netscape or another executable configured by an environment
variable.

=item * New attribute "FULLSCREEN", allows creating a dialog that
occupies exactly the whole screen.

=item * Dialog IupGetFile was rewritten using IupFileDlg.

=back

=head2 Windows

=over

=item * New attribute "CURSORPOS", allows programmatically changing the
cursor's position on the screen.

=item * New attribute "NOOVERWRITEPROMPT" for IupFileDlg. It prevents
IupFileDlg in Save mode from asking the user if s/he really wishes to
overwrite a file.

=item * Problem corrected in the file list in the use of attribute
"MULTIPLE_FILES" for IupFileDlg. When only a folder was selected, it
was not setting the "STATUS" attribute in a cancelled action.

=item * Greater driver stability - Ihandle is no longer dependant on
the native handle (HWND).

=item * New global attributes "HINSTANCE", "SYSTEMLANGUAGE",
"COMPUTERNAME", "USERNAME".

=item * Global attribute IUP_SYSTEM now returns a more complete string.

=item * Cursor now changes instantly - it only changed before returning
to IUP.

=item * In an inactive IupToggle, the IMINACTIVE image is now correct.

=back

=head2 Motif

=over

=item * The iupmot library no longer exists. Tecmake has been updated,
but those who use their own metafiles must remove this file from the
list of libraries in the application.

=item * New attribute "AUTOREPEAT" allows turning on and off the
automatic repetition mode of pressed keys.

=back

=head2 IupLua

=over

=item * [4/5] IupListDialog when selection type is 1 (single) was not
returning any value.

=item * [4/5] Callbacks mapcb and showcb had their names wrong: map_cb
and show_cb

=item * [3] Callback action in IupMultiline was not passing the
parameter "after".

=item * [4/5] In IupTree, callbacks "afterselection" and
"beforeselection" were replaced with the callback "selection".

=back

=head2 IupControls

=over

=item * We have joined seven libraries in one: dial, gauge, cb, gc,
mask, tabs and val. But neither the initialization functions nor each
control's inclusion files were changed. The source code does not need
to be altered, except for the makefiles. Tecmake was given a flag
USE_IUPCONTROLS to automatically include this library.

=back

=head2 IupMatrix

=over

=item * The name of the library was changed from "iupmatrx" to
"iupmatrix". The same for the inclusion files. Therefore, all
applications that use IupMatrix must change the source code and the
makefile to reflect these changes.

=back

=head2 IupTree

=over

=item * In one case, the active CD canvas was not being returned to the
old canvas before drawing.

=back

=head2 IupGL

=over

=item * In Linux, the additional GLw library was added to the control
library.

=item * New attributes for query in UNIX: CONTEXT (GLXContext), VISUAL
(XVisualInfo*) , COLORMAP (Colormap).

=back

=head2 L<History of Version 1.x|history1.html>

=cut