=head1 History of Changes in Version 3.x

Check the L<Migration Guide|migration_guide.html> for a summary of the
important changes and how to proceed when migrating from version 2.x to
version 3.x.

=head2 L<Version 3.4|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.4/>
(15/Feb/2011)

=over

=item * New: function B<IupClassMatch>.

=item * New: functions B< IupPPlotInsertStrPoints>,
B<IupPPlotInsertPoints>, B<IupPPlotAddPoints> and
B<IupPPlotAddStrPoints> for B<IupPPlot> to add an array of samples at
once.

=item * New: common attribute SCREENPOSITION that returs the X and Y
attributes at once.

=item * New: ACTIVEWINDOW attribute for B< IupDialog> in Windows and
GTK.

=item * New: EDITNEXT attribute for B< IupMatrix> to control the next
cell after editing.

=item * New: FITTOTEXT action attribute, FITMAXHEIGHT and FITMAXWIDTH
attributes in B< IupMatrix>.

=item * New: INPUTCALLBACKS global attribute and GLOBALKEYPRESS_CB,
GLOBALMOTION_CB, GLOBALBUTTON_CB and GLOBALWHEEL_CB global callbacks.

=item * New: B<IupRecordInput> and B<IupPlayInput> functions to record
and play back mouse and keyboard interaction. (play partially working)

=item * B<New: >VALUEMASKED attribute for B<IupText>.

=item * B<New:> SYSTEMLOCALE global attribute.

=item * Changed: removed compatibility with old bc55, gcc3 and mingw3
compilers in Windows. Depending on the Cygwin installation gcc3 may
still works.

=item * Changed: improved internal class inheritance so iupClassNew can
use iupRegisterFindClass to get its parent.

=item * Changed: NAVIGATE_CB callback in B<IupWebBrowser> to process
the return value. If IUP_IGNORE is returned navigation is canceled.

=item * Changed: improved compatibility with GTK 3.0.

=item * Changed: improved memory management in IupLua using the new
LDESTROY_CB callback.

=item * Fixed: removed call to B< cdCanvasFlush> when
B<IupPPlotPaintTo> is used.

=item * Fixed: FILTER and EXTFILTER attributes of B<IupFileDlg> in GTK
when more than one pattern is specified for the same filter
("*.jpg;*.bmp").

=item * Fixed: RESIZE=NO was incorrectly forcing MINBOX=NO for
B<IupDialog> in GTK.

=item * Fixed: compatibility with GTK 2.22.

=item * Fixed: padding warning in GTK when using B<IupButton> with
IMPRESS.

=item * Fixed: X and Y attributes in the GTK driver for all controls. X
and Y attributes in the Windows and Motif drivers for the B<IupDialog>.

=item * Fixed: B<IupInsert> when adding the first element of a
container.

=item * Fixed: set attribute in the properties dialog of the
B<IupLayoutDialog>.

=item * Fixed: behavior of BGCOLOR, GETFOCUS_CB, KILLFOCUS_CB, and
K_ANY for B< IupList> when DROPDOWN=Yes in GTK.

=item * Fixed: parameters "o" and "n" in iup.B<GetParam> when used in
Lua.

=item * Fixed: added support for B< IupSplit>, B<IupNormalizer> and
B<IupWebBrowser> in the ledc tool.

=item * Fixed: support for WIDTH*, HEIGHT*, RASTERWIDTH* and
RASTERHEIGHT* attributes of B<IupMatrix> when the B<IupSetAttributeId>
functions are used.

=item * Fixed: FITTOSIZE attribute in B< IupMatrix> when title column
size is defined by WIDTH0 or RASTERWIDTH0 to be 0.

=item * Fixed: WID get attribute in B< IupLua> on Windows.

=item * Fixed: added missing iup.B<GetNativeHandleImage> and
iup.B<GetImageNativeHandle> binding in IupLua.

=item * Fixed: line end converting when FORMATTING=Yes in B<IupText> on
Windows.

=item * Fixed: feedback when opening/closing branches in B<IupTree> on
Windows when SHOWDRAGDROP=YES.

=item * Fixed: DRAW_CB callback in B< IupCells> when using the last
parameter canvas.

=item * Fixed: cell value when editing was stared with a character not
valid by the current MASK in B<IupMatrix>.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.3|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.3/>
(release2) (18/Nov/2010)

We identified some limitations and problems with the new
B<IupWebBrowser> control, so we re-released some 3.3 packages to
include an updated version of it.

=over

=item * New: HTML attribute in B<IupWebBrowser> to load a string. New
COMPLETED_CB and ERROR_CB callbacks. New STATUS attribute.

=item * Changed: removed reason parameter from NAVIGATE_CB callback in
B<IupWebBrowser>. VALUE attribute will load always on the top
frame.

=item * Fixed: VALUE attribute of B<IupWebBrowser> was write only in
Windows. Memory allocation that affected NAVIGATE_CB and NEWWINDOW_CB
in Windows. Added missing Lua binding pre-compiled libraries.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.3|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.3/>
(09/Nov/2010)

=over

=item * New: B<IupWebBrowser> control using an embedded Internet
Explorer in Windows, and Webkit in Linux.

=item * New: Perl binding for IUP by Kmx at
L<GitHub|http://github.com/kmx/perl-iup>.

=item * New: global attribute MOUSEBUTTON to send button press and
button release messages.

=item * New: control B< L<IupTuioClient|ctrl/iuptuio.html>> that
connects to a L<TUIO|http://www.tuio.org> server and process
multi-touch messages.

=item * New: support for native multi-touch events in B<IupCanvas> on
Window 7. New TOUCH_CB and MULTITOUCH_CB callbacks. New TOUCH
attribute.

=item * New: function B<IupRefreshChildren> to update the layout
locally at children only.

=item * New: IGNORE value for the FLOATING attribute.

=item * New: guide for building IUP, CD and IM in Linux on the
documentation. Scripts for installation of the precompiled binaries or
build binaries in the system.

=item * New: CLIENTOFFSET attribute for all containers.

=item * New: B<IupLayoutDialog> pre-defined dialog to visually edit the
layout of another dialog in run time.

=item * New: FLAT attribute for B<IupToggle> when IMAGE is defined.

=item * New: AUTOREDRAW attribute for B< IupTree> and B<IupList> so
redraw can be disabled in Windows.

=item * New: functions B<IupCopyClassAttributes>,
B<IupGetClassCallbacks> and B<IupGetAllClasses>.

=item * New: TABCHANGEPOS_CB callback in B< IupTabs>.

=item * New: functions B<Iup*AttributeId> to get and set attributes
that need an ID. These functions are faster than the traditional
functions because they do not need to parse the attribute name string
and the application does not need to concatenate the attribute name
with the id. The B<IupMat*Attribute> functions also became faster than
the traditional functions.

=item * New: parameters for B<IupGetParam>, "o" to display the list in
an array of toggles inside a radio, and "n" to select a font, similar
to the "c" parameter that selects a color.

=item * New: DROPEQUALDRAG attribute for B< IupTree>.

=item * New: B<IupFontDlg> in Motif.

=item * New: FITTOSIZE action attribute in B< IupMatrix>.

=item * New: callbacks BUTTON_CB, DROPFILES_CB, ENTERWINDOW_CB and
LEAVEWINDOW_CB for B<IupLabel>.

=item * New: the IupLua Console application now shows Lua code with
syntax highlighting.

=item * Changed: MARQUEE attribute support in B<IupProgressBar> on GTK
and Motif now works just like on Windows.

=item * Changed: SHOWRENAME in B<IupTree> can now be changed after map.

=item * Changed: CLIENTSIZE in B<IupVbox> and B<IupHbox> will not
include margins anymore. Removed CLIENTSIZE1 and CLIENTSIZE2 from B<
IupSplit> and added CLIENTSIZE.

=item * Changed: TYPE attribute renamed to ORIENTATION in B<IupVal> and
B< IupDial>. Old name still works.

=item * Changed: DIRECTION attribute renamed to ORIENTATION in
B<IupSplit>. Old name still works.

=item * Changed: removed FOCUSONCLICK from B<IupButton>. The old name
will set CANFOCUS.

=item * Changed: now when IMPRESS is defined along with IMAGE, and
TITLE is not defined, then the borders will not be shown neither
computed. The buttons with this attribute are now smaller than in
previous versions.

=item * Changed: B<IupReparent> to receive one more parameter to be
used as a reference child.

=item * Changed: B<IupSpinbox>, B<IupSplit>, B<IupSbox> now can be
dynamically constructed with B<IupAppend>/B<IupInsert>.

=item * Changed: standard SIZE and RASTERSIZE format can also be used
in B<IupHbox>, B<IupVbox> and B<IupFill>.

=item * Changed: now B<IupSaveClassAttributes> and
B<IupCopyClassAttributes> will save also id dependent attributes.

=item * Changed: Patch applied. Trying to improve the ADDFORMATTAG
behavior in order to avoid scrolling physically and destroying the
selection. Adds the concept of BULK format tags. The SELECTION and
SELECTIONPOS attributes of the format tag will NOT change the
B<IupText> attributes anymore. Contribution of the Indentation library
that adds syntax highlighting to a Lua code text. Thanks to Nicolas
Noble.

=item * Changed: removed FINDUSERDATA attribute from B<IupTree>, use B<
IupTreeGetId> always.

=item * Changed: removed images larger than 48x48 (inclusive) from the
pre-compiled libraries of the IupImgLib, reducing its size and allowing
more applications to use the pre-compiled binaries. The images are
still available in the source code.

=item * Fixed: callback not called in B< IupGetParam> when a file name
or a color string are selected by the extra dialog button.

=item * Fixed: LEDC to correctly include the necessary headers.

=item * Fixed: FRAMEVERTCOLORL:C attribute of B<IupMatrix> for cell
with col=0 or lin=0.

=item * Fixed: avoid double calls to ACTION in B<IupButton> on Windows
when pressing enter and a dialog is displayed.

=item * Fixed: the cleaner syntax feature for separator creation in
Lua.

=item * Fixed: returned value in RASTERSIZE for the B<IupDialog> in GTK
and Motif.

=item * Fixed: missing B<IupSetCallbacks> export for "iup.dll".

=item * Fixed: B<IupFileDlg> on Motif when MULTIPLEFILES=Yes and
FILE_CB is not defined.

=item * Fixed: natural height computation for B<IupList> on Windows
when DROPDOWN=Yes.

=item * Fixed: ACTION callback called an extra time when
FOCUSONCLICK=NO and user double click in B<IupButton> on Windows.

=item * Fixed: TABTITLEn attribute return value of B<IupTabs> when
TABTITLE was set at a child.

=item * Fixed: SCREENSIZE global attribute in GTK when using multiple
monitors.

=item * Fixed: MARKEDid attribute in B< IupTree> on Windows when
MARKMODE=SINGLE, was not changing the focus node.

=item * Fixed: line end converting when FORMATTING=Yes in B<IupText> on
Windows. Thanks to Nicolas Noble.

=item * Fixed: B<IupMessageDlg> modality in Windows, when PARENTDLG is
not specified then it will be modal relative to all application
dialogs.

=item * Fixed: mnemonic support for TABTITLE in GTK and Motif.

=item * Fixed: drag&drop, move and copy of nodes in B<IupTree> on GTK.

=item * Fixed: mapping of standard font names to Pango names in GTK.

=item * Fixed: invalid current cell in B< IupMatrix> after adding lines
or column to a matrix that had 0 lines or 0 columns.

=item * Fixed: B<IupSetFocus> was not working in GTK if the dialog does
not has the focus.

=item * Fixed: RESIZE_CB callback in B< IupCanvas> not being called
after the canvas is mapped in GTK.

=item * Fixed: removed Scrollbar warning when creating a multiline
B<IupText> in Motif.

=item * Fixed: FONT handling in B<IupText> on Windows when
FORMATTING=Yes.

=item * Fixed: Enter key processing when editing a B<IupMatrix> cell
and IUP_IGNORE is returned in EDITION_CB, to avoid propagating that key
press to the dialog.

=item * Fixed: B<IupZbox> VALUE management when the zbox itself is not
visible.

=item * Fixed: B<IupSplit> when AUTOHIDE=Yes.

=item * Fixed: an invalid focus cell in B< IupMatrix> could occur after
NUMLIN or NUMCOL was changed to smaller values.

=item * Fixed: invalid call to ACTION callback of a B<IupToggle> when
inside a radio and VALUE is set.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.2|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.2/>
(26/June/2010)

=over

=item * New: function B<IupResetAttribute>.

=item * New: MINMAX attribute for B<IupSplit>.

=item * New: global attribute SINGLEINSTANCE so the application can
restrict the number of its instances in Windows. COPYDATA_CB callback
for B<IupDialog> in Windows to receive the command line of the
secondary instances when SINGLEINSTANCE is used.

=item * New: attributes WMFAVAILABLE, EMFAVAILABLE, SAVEWMF and SAVEEMF
for B<IupClipboard> in Windows.

=item * Changed: some Lua parameters that use "number" to "integer".

=item * Changed: replaced old "arg" usage for "..." to improve better
compatibility with LuaJIT. Thanks to J.-F. Cap.

=item * Changed: B<IupSaveClassAttributes> to not save values that are
equal to the default values.

=item * Changed: B<IupFileDlg> behavior in Motif to avoid auto resize
when a directory is changed.

=item * Changed: C function B<iuplua_dofile> will now check for the
IUPLUA_DIR environment variable when file could not be opened.

=item * Changed: control of LOHs inclusion moved from the source code
to the makefile.

=item * Changed: removed compatibility with require"iuplua51", now
LuaBinaries must be used or LUA_CPATH must be set.

=item * Changed: added compatibility with Lua 5.2.

=item * Changed: global variable SYSTEM in Mac OS X, renamed from
Darwin to MacOS.

=item * Fixed: the cleaner syntax feature for menu creation in Lua.

=item * Fixed: stack overflow when "MARKL:C" is set inside MARKEDIT_CB
because MARK_CB is not defined in B<IupMatrix>.

=item * Fixed: B<iup.TreeSetUserId> error in Lua.

=item * Fixed: B<IupView> executable in Win64.

=item * Fixed: RIGHTCLICK_CB called twice when B<IupTree> is inside two
B<IupTabs> in Windows.

=item * Fixed: B<IupLoopStep> in Windows to process the IDLE callback.

=item * Fixed: natural size of B<IupText> and B<IupMatrix> when
SCROLLBAR is VERTICAL or HORIZONTAL only.

=item * Fixed: B<IupSplit> were not considering MINSIZE and MAXSIZE.

=item * Fixed: EXPANDWEIGHT implementation.

=item * Fixed: MARK=CLEARALL in B<IupTree> on Windows. DELNODE=MARKED
in B<IupTree> on all drivers, so the node 0 can also be removed.

=item * Fixed: return value of SIZE and RASTERSIZE of the B<IupDialog>
when reset to NULL after the dialog was mapped.

=item * Fixed: a right click in a node in B<IupTree> on Windows was
causing an invalid redraw of the selected node.

=item * Fixed: parameter indexing when using the new button names
parameter in B<IupGetParam>.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.1|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.1/>
(22/Apr/2010)

=over

=item * New: MULTIUNSELECTION_CB callback in B< IupTree>. MARKEDNODES
attribute in B<IupTree>.

=item * New: EXPANDWEIGHT attribute for children of B<IupVbox> and
B<IupHbox>.

=item * New: HIDDENTEXTMARKS attribute in B< IupMatrix>. ALIGNMENT
attribute for all cells in B<IupMatrix>, used when ALIGNMENTc is not
defined.

=item * New: B<IupSplit> control, similar to B<IupSbox> but with two
children.

=item * New: option "u" in B<IupGetParam> to redefine the OK and Cancel
buttons names and add a Help button.

=item * New: ADDROOT attribute in B<IupTree>, its default is Yes. The
first node now can be deleted and can have other nodes at depth=0. New
DELNODE=ALL value that remove all nodes.

=item * New: native driver for MacOSX under construction. Help needed!
Thanks to Heesob Park.

=item * Changed: INSERTITEMn attribute in B<IupList> now allows to add
an item after the last item using n=count+1.

=item * Changed: removed B<IupMessage> from error handling in IUP-IM
utilities. Now a global attribute "IUPIM_LASTERROR" is set instead.

=item * Changed: NUMCOL_VISIBLE and NUMLIN_VISIBLE attributes can now
be greater than the actual number of columns/lines, so room will be
reserved for adding new columns/lines without the need to resize the
matrix.

=item * B<Changed: IupTree> internal optimization for
B<IupTreeSetUserId>, B<IupTreeGetId> and B<IupTreeGetUserId>.

=item * B<Changed: > removed AUTODRAGDROP attribute from B<IupTree> on
GTK.

=item * B<Changed:> added support for multiple file selection in
B<IupFileDlg> on Motif.

=item * B<Changed:> Simplify IupLua implementation. More similar to a
regular binding implementation like CDLua and IMLua.

=item * B<Changed:> removed old controls B<IupTabs> and B<IupVal> kept
for compatibility in the IupControls libraries. The new B<IupTabs> and
B<IupVal> in the main library must be used from now on.

=item * Fixed: optional creation parameter of B<IupSubmenu>,
B<IupSbox>, B<IupFrame>, B<IupRadio>, B<IupVal> and B<IupDial> in Lua.

=item * Fixed: B<IupSbox> handler feedback when MAXSIZE or MINSIZE is
used.

=item * Fixed: color value in B< IupGetParam> after the color browser
dialog canceled editing.

=item * Fixed: improved compatibility in B< IupOleControl> so it can be
compiled with gcc from Cygwin.

=item * Fixed: display update when changing IMAGE attribute in
B<IupLabel> on Windows. Display update when changing FGCOLOR and
ALIGNMENT attributes in B<IupToggle> on Windows.

=item * Fixed: default image update in B< IupTree> on Motif.

=item * Fixed: scrollbar position in B< IupCanvas> on Windows after
dragging the thumb when it is released.

=item * Fixed: NUMCOL_VISIBLE and NUMLIN_VISIBLE default value in
B<IupMatrix>.

=item * Fixed: B<IupMatrix> scrolling can now position cells in
intermediate positions. When using the scrollbar button still scrolls
in cell steps, when dragging the scrollbar can freely position the
cells. This fixes the problem of the last column or line being
incomplete visible.

=item * Fixed: vertical frame drawing of a cell when using
FRAMEVERTCOLORL:C equals to the background color. FRAMEVERTCOLORL:C and
FRAMEHORIZCOLORL:C can now use "BGCOLOR" as value to not draw the frame
line.

=item * Fixed: added missing exports in the main DLL for B<IupGetInt2>
and B<IupGetIntInt>.

=item * Fixed: object position in B< IupOleControl>. New sample using
LuaCOM for callbacks. (Thanks to Kommit)

=item * Fixed: background color for images in B<IupTabs> and B<IupTree>
when not using visual styles on Windows.

=item * Fixed: integer input mask when limited to min-max in
B<IupGetParam>.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access on multiple selection callback
management in B<IupList>.

=item * Fixed: compatibility code for deprecated functions in GTK 2.20.

=item * Fixed: FILE_CB callback file parameter in B<IupFileDlg> when
multiple files are selected on Windows.

=item * Fixed: RENAME_CB callback being called when user cancel
renaming in B<IupTree> on Windows. BRANCHOPEN_CB or BRANCHCLOSE_CB
being called when STATEid is set in B< IupTree> on GTK and on Motif.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access when saving DIRECTORY in a
multiple selection B<IupFileDlg> on GTK.

=item * Fixed: dropdown cell editing in B< IupMatrix> on Motif.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access in hash table module when removing
an attribute.

=back

=head2 L<Version
3.0.1|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.0.1/> (14/Mar/2010)
(Internal)

=over

=item * New: TOTALCHILDCOUNTid and LASTADDNODE attributes in B<
IupTree,> so you can compute or retrieve the id of the node created by
an INSERT operation.

=item * New: common callback DESTROY_CB.

=item * Changed: propagation of attributes will be ignored at a child
where the attribute is marked as non inheritable.

=item * Changed: double click sequence of events in GTK to match the
sequences in Windows and Motif.

=item * Changed: when IMAGE is defined for a B<IupButton>, TITLE will
be also considered during map if not NULL and not empty. This will
allow buttons with images created in LED to continue to use "" to
define their titles.

=item * B<Changed: >When the DIRECTORY attribute of B<IupFileDlg> is
consulted after the dialog is closed and the user pressed the OK
button, it will contain the directory of the selected file.

=item * B<Changed: IupTree> internal optimization to match ids to/from
native nodes. SHOWRENAME_CB callback return code to accept IUP_IGNORE.
The NODEREMOVED_CB callback now only receive the node userdata.

=item * Fixed: B<IupGetParam> param parsing of %f and %c in Lua.

=item * Fixed: B<IupTreeUtil> contributed functions.

=item * Fixed: AXS_YREVERSE attribute in B< IupPPlot>.

=item * Fixed: size of a node in B<IupTree> on Windows when TITLEFONT
is set.

=item * Fixed: LEGENDPOS attribute in IupPPlot.

=item * Fixed: invalid call to SELECTION_CB callback in B<IupTree> on
Windows when MARKMODE=MULTIPLE and the user pressed the Ctrl key to
select an item. Missing call to SELECTION_CB in GTK and Motif when user
unselect multiple nodes at once. Invalid change of the selection when
focus is changed in B<IupTree> on Windows Vista/7 when not using visual
styles. In GTK and Motif children of not expanded nodes were not being
selected when multiple nodes were selected in one operation.

=item * Fixed: interpretation of comments inside elements declaration
in LED.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access in B< IupClose> when using LED.

=item * Fixed: selection was not hiding in B<IupText> when the control
loses its focus on Windows when MULTILINE=NO.

=item * Fixed: MARKMODE in B<IupTree>, NC in B<IupText> and B<IupList>,
PADDING in B<IupLabel, IupButton, IupToggle, IupText> and B<IupTabs>,
if they were set only before map.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.0|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.0/>
(26/Jan/2010)

=over

=item * New: added support for MacOSX using GTK.

=item * New: function B<IupLoopStepWait>.

=item * New: functions B< iup.TreeSetNodeAttributes>,
B<iup.TreeSetAncestorsAttributes> and B<iup.TreeSetDescentsAttributes>
for IupTree in Lua. (Thanks to Tomas Gorham)

=item * Changed: B<iup.TreeSetValue> renamed to B<iup.TreeAddNodes>.
Old name also works.

=item * Fixed: B<IupList> with DROPDOWN=Yes and the last item is
removed.

=item * Fixed: dynamic BGCOLOR change in Windows for B<IupText>,
B<IupList>, B<IupVal> and B<IupTabs>.

=item * Fixed: duplicate call to TABCHANGE_CB in B<IupTabs> on Windows
when a Tab is inside another Tab.

=item * Fixed: IUP_IGNORE support in B< IupText> on Windows for the
K_ANY callback.

=item * Fixed: focus management when dialog gets back the focus and
must redirect it to the last child with focus, on Windows.

=item * Fixed: button press feedback when FOCUSONCLICK=NO in
B<IupButton> on Windows XP.

=item * Fixed: title bar display in B< IupDialog> on GTK when only
TITLE=NULL, but MENUBOX is still YES.

=item * Fixed: default value for VALUE in B<IupFontDlg>.

=item * Fixed: background color of edit box in B<IupTree> on Windows
when not using Visual Styles.

=item * Fixed: CARET attribute in B< IupText> on Windows when line is
greater than the last line.

=item * Fixed: excess of motion_cb events in B<IupCanvas> on GTK when
in UNIX.

=item * Fixed: CMARGIN attribute in B< IupVbox> and B<IupHbox>.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access in NODEREMOVED_CB callback
processing of B<IupTree> on Windows.

=item * Fixed: VALUE attribute in B< IupTree> when MARKMODE=SINGLE, on
Windows was not unselecting the previous node, on GTK if set during the
SELECTION_CB was aborting the next call to the callback. In GTK and
Motif was also not showing the node if inside a collapsed branch.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.0 RC
4a|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.0RC4a/> (18/Dec/2009)

=over

=item * Fixed: VISIBLE attribute management. B<IupZbox> now will
respect if a child has a VISIBLE attribute set, and it will not change
it. B<IupTabs> now does not depends on the VISIBLE attribute anymore.

=item * Fixed: VALUE attribute return in B< IupItem> on GTK.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.0 RC
4|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.0RC4/> (14/Dec/2009)

=over

=item * New: NMARGIN and NGAP non-inheritable attributes for B<IupHbox>
and B<IupVbox>.

=item * New: "OTHER" status code for FILE_CB when selecting an invalid
file name or a directory in B<IupFileDlg>.

=item * New: DLL_HINSTANCE global attribute in Windows.

=item * Changed: Added a workaround for TITLEFONTid for B<IupTree> when
changing only the Bold style in Windows.

=item * Changed: the RENAMENODE_CB callback in B<IupTree> is not
supported anymore.

=item * Changed: improved compatibility of B<IupFileDlg> when
DIALOGTYPE=DIR and CoInitializeEx was initialized with
COINIT_MULTITHREADED prior to B<IupOpen> in Windows.

=item * Changed: B<IupFrame> can now has a color background when not
using TITLE, and BGCOLOR is set before map.

=item * Fixed: memory leak in B<IupPPlot>.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access in set ALIGNMENT attribute for
B<IupLabel>, B<IupButton> and B<IupToggle>, and in set MARK for
B<IupTree>.

=item * Fixed: invalid layout computation when using the old B<IupSpin>
element.

=item * Fixed: STATE attribute for B< IupTree> in Windows when branch
has no child.

=item * Fixed: invalid redraw of some controls when dialog is resized
in Windows.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access for SYSTEMVERSION global attribute
in Linux. Thanks to David Given.

=item * Fixed: missing convertion to UTF-8 in B<IupButton> when
handling TITLE at map in the GTK driver.

=item * Fixed: image branch update when branch STATE is changed in
B<IupTree> in Windows.

=item * Fixed: SHOWRENAME_CB callback when renaming is started clicking
twice in B<IupTree>.

=item * Fixed: invalid limit check in VALUE attribute of B<IupList> in
the GTK driver. Thanks to Paul Gregory.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access when setting VALUE to NULL in
B<IupTree>.

=item * Fixed: ACTION callback called when an item is set on a
B<IupList> when DROPDOWN=Yes.

=item * Fixed: dialog decoration size when menu is associated during
the map process.

=item * Fixed: K_ANY callback called twice for B<IupTabs> in the GTK
driver.

=item * Fixed: invalid memory access when destroying some of the
additional controls that use CD.

=item * Fixed: incomplete redraw of the B< IupCanvas> in Windows XP
when a window moves over the canvas.

=item * Fixed: missing call to ACTION when an item that was replaced is
clicked in B<IupList>.

=item * Fixed: switch of a complete menu in B<IupDialog> was not
working.

=item * Fixed: button press feedback when FOCUSONCLICK=NO in
B<IupButton> on Windows.

=item * Fixed: VISIBLE attribute for non native containers. It affected
B<IupZbox>.

=item * Fixed: B<IupMatrix> with EXPAND=NO was behaving as EXPAND=YES.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.0 RC
3|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.0RC3/> (02/Oct/2009)

=over

=item * New: MOVE_CB callback for B< IupDialog> in Windows and GTK.

=item * New: SPINNING attribute for B< IupGetParam> when the callback
is activated by a spin.

=item * New: KEYPRESS, KEYRELEASE and KEY global attributes.

=item * New: MAXSIZE and MINSIZE attributes for all controls.

=item * New: NODEREMOVED_CB callback for B<IupTree>.

=item * New: SORT attribute for B<IupList>.

=item * New: function B<IupSaveImageAsText>.

=item * New: function B<IupLoadBuffer>.

=item * New: parameter in the EDITION_CB callback of B<IupMatrix> to
indicate if the value will be updated.

=item * New: auxiliary functions B< IupGLUseFont> and B<IupGLWait> for
the B< IupGLCanvas>. attribute REFRESHCONTEXT in Windows.

=item * B<New:> VALUECHANGED_CB callback for B<IupVal>, B<IupDial>,
B<IupColorBrowser>, B<IupToggle>, B< IupText> and B<IupList>.

=item * B<New:> element B< IupClipboard>.

=item * B<New:> functions B< IupGetNativeHandleImage> and
B<IupGetImageNativeHandle> for the Iup-IM library.

=item * Changed: now the B<iup.image> constructor also accepts
parameters in the same format as B<iup.imagergb> and B<iup.imagergba>.

=item * Changed: return value to boolean of B<iup.GLIsCurrent,
iup.GetParam, iup.SaveImage, iup.isshift, iup.iscontrol, iup.isbutton1,
iup.isbutton2, iup.isbutton3, iup.isbutton4, iup.isbutton5,
iup.isdouble, iup.issys, iup.isalt, iup.isSysXkey, iup.isAltXkey,
iup.isCtrlXkey, iup.isShiftXkey> and B<iup.isXkey> in Lua.

=item * Changed: the function B<iup.key_open> is now obsolete and not
necessary anymore.

=item * Changed: improved transparency for 8bpp images in Windows.

=item * Changed: in B<IupMatrix> since the selection is made only using
the mouse, by pressing a key will NOT clear the selection anymore. You
can still do that setting MARKED=NULL in the K_ANY callback. Improved
MARKL:C to be more flexible for other MARKMODE options.

=item * Changed: updated the B<IupTreeUtil> contributed utility.

=item * Changed: CHANGEVALUE_CB callback renamed to VALUECHANGED_CB in
B<IupVal>.

=item * Changed: internal reorganization of the abstract layout methods
of the Ihandle class to allow more flexibility and control of the
layout process.

=item * Changed: LAYERED and LAYERALPHA attributes are now condensed in
the OPACITY attribute. The OPACITY is available in Windows and GTK.

=item * Fixed: the functions B< IupPreviousField> and B<IupNextField>
to respect the dialog hierarchy order.

=item * Fixed: NUMCOL and NUMLIN when set to 0 in B<IupMatrix>. Double
click in a title cell was entering in edit mode at the focus cell.
Marks were processed after ENTERCELL_CB when the user single click a
cell. Enter key processed also for the next cell when MULTIPLE=YES
after editing ended.

=item * Fixed: STARTFOCUS in Motif and Win32 for B<IupDialog> where not
working. Now STARTFOCUS is set only if SHOW_CB did not changed the
current focus.

=item * Fixed: DLGBGCOLOR in Motif where incorrectly set.

=item * Fixed: B<IupToggle> redraw inside an B<IupFrame> in Windows XP
where disapearing.

=item * Fixed: background color of the edit box of B<IupTree> in
Windows XP where black.

=item * Fixed: release of stock images in B<IupClose> caused the
application to crash.

=item * Fixed: auxiliar function B< iup.TreeSetUserId> in Lua when
releasing the previous reference.

=item * Fixed: ACTION callback of B< IupButton> in Windows when
FOCUSONCLICK=NO was not being called.

=item * Fixed: return value of B< IupSaveImage> was inverted.

=item * Fixed: export of image in Lua at the B<IupView> application.

=item * Fixed: B<IupGetParam> when specifying full intervals without
the step parameter.

=item * Fixed: DEFAULTENTER and DEFAULTESC in Windows when focus is
inside an B< IupTabs>. Also in Windows they were processed before
K_ANY, so K_ANY could not abort them by returning IUP_IGNORE.

=item * Fixed: K_ANY called twice for K_CR when B<IupText> has multiple
lines in Windows.

=item * Fixed: in Windows when a pre-defined system dialog was closed
with Enter or Esc, the key was propagated to the dialog that open it.

=item * Fixed: keyboard navigation in the dialog now respects the order
of B< IupNextField> and B<IupPreviousField> for all drivers. Those
functions were also improved.

=item * Fixed: in GTK the VISIBLE attribute returned invalid result
when child is hidden by its parent.

=item * Fixed: in Windows the text color of a selected item of an
B<IupTree> was not inverted.

=item * Fixed: in Windows the VALUE attribute of a inactive B<IupItem>
was always OFF.

=item * Fixed: ENTERWINDOW_CB and LEAVEWINDOW_CB for B<IupCanvas> in
Windows were not being called.

=item * Fixed: HELP_CB was not working for B<IupVal>, B<IupTabs> and
B<IupTree> in Motif.

=item * Fixed: USETITLESIZE attribute logic in B<IupMatrix>.

=item * Fixed: DELNODE attribute when value is CHILDREN in B<IupTree>.
It was not working for the root node.

=back

=head2 L<Version 3.0 RC
2|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.0RC2/> (18/Jul/2009)

=over

=item * New: MONITORSINFO and VIRTUALSCREEN global attributes now also
available in GTK.

=item * New: USETITLESIZE attribute for B<IupMatrix>.

=item * New: DEFAULTFONTSIZE global attribute.

=item * New: B<IupSetAtt> auxiliar function.

=item * Changed: the default alignment for B<IupButton> (Text and
Image) and IupToggle (Image) to "ACENTER:ACENTER".

=item * Changed: improved decoration size computation for B<IupDialog>
in GTK.

=item * Fixed: B<IupItem> in GTK when compiled in versions older than
2.14, but run in newer versions.

=item * B<Fixed:> alignment of buttons in B<IupAlarm>.

=item * B<Fixed:> B<IupZbox> visible child management and VISILBE
attribute update after mapping an element.

=item * B<Fixed:> X and Y attributes for GTK.

=item * B<Fixed:> B<IupTree> TITLE with non UTF-8 characters.

=item * B<Fixed:> B<IupClose> in loop when removing names.

=item * B<Fixed:> CONTEXT and VISUAL in B<IupGLCanvas>.

=item * B<Fixed:> SHOWTICKS in B<IupVal>.

=item * B<Fixed:> in B< IupMatrix. > default cell alignment. BGCOLOR
and FGCOLOR to use the global default colors instead of "255 255 255"
and "0 0 0". drawing details. misbehavior of the scrollbar in GTK.
improved IUP 2 compatibility when calling VALUE_CB and when consulting
titles to compute cell size.

=item * B<Fixed:> VALUE management in B<IupZbox>.

=item * B<Fixed:> removed "cannot add non scrollable widget" warning
message when creating a B< IupCanvas> in GTK.

=item * B<Fixed:> ADDEXPANDED in B< IupTree>.

=item * B<Fixed:> SIZE consideration in layout computation for
B<IupDialog>.

=item * B<Fixed:> DIALOGTYPE=MESSAGE for B<IupMessageDlg> in GTK.

=item * B<Fixed:> B<IupButton> with no text and no image, but with
BGCOLOR defined will properly show the color.

=back

=head2 Version 3.0 RC 1 (26/Jun/2009)

=head2 General

=over

=item * New: checked for memory leaks using L<
VLD|http://dmoulding.googlepages.com/vld> in Windows and
L<Valgrind|http://valgrind.org/> in Linux.

=item * New: PREVIEWGLCANVAS attribute for B<IupFileDlg>.

=item * New: auxiliary functions B<IupTextConvertLinColToPos> and B<
IupTextConvertPosToLinCol> for B<IupText>.

=item * New: basic tutorial for IupLua. (Thanks to Steve Donovan)

=item * New: B<IupTree> now uses native controls and was moved to the
standard controls. The old implementation is not available. Images for
nodes are not limited to 16x16 anymore. BGCOLOR now follows the same
default as B< IupText> and B<IupList>, and can be changed. New
TITLEFONT, FGCOLOR, USERDATA, FINDUSERID, COUNT, CHILDCOUNT, EXPANDALL,
INDENTATION, HIDEBUTTONS, HIDELINES, COPYNODE, MOVENODE, SPACING,
TOPITEM, INSERTLEAF and INSERTBRANCH attributes. New BUTTON_CB,
MOTION_CB and DROPFILES_CB callbacks. Attributes SCROLLBAR and REDRAW
are not supported anymore. VALUE attribute split in VALUE and MARK
attributes, set MARK using VALUE is still possible fro backward
compatibility. STARTING renamed to MARKSTART, and CTRL/SHIFT attributes
replaced by MARKMODE (old names kept working for compatibility). Now if
DRAGDROP_CB returns IUP_CONTINUE or if it is not defined but
SHOWDRAGDROP=Yes then the node will be automatically moved to the new
position. B< ATTENTION>B< - > DEPTH is now a read-only attribute, use
the INSERT* attributes to properly add nodes. NAMEid attribute renamed
to TITLE, old attribute still works but will be removed in future
versions since it conflicts with the common NAME attribute. The
SELECTION_CB and MULTISELECTION_CB callbacks now ignore their return
value. The rename action is now activated by two clicks instead of a
double click.

=item * B<Changed>: removed "lua5.1.so" dependency in UNIX.

=item * Changed: In IupLua the Lua function B<iup.TreeSetValue> now
also accepts node decoration in the initialization table and can add a
subtree to any node. (Thanks to Tomas Gorham)

=item * Changed: In IupLua attributes that are pointers to Ihandle are
now returned as ihandle instead of userdata.

=item * Changed: replaced "[]" in function declarations by a simple
"*". None of those functions needed it.

=item * Changed: the default value of the Windows attribute COMPOSITED
is back to NO to improve backward compatibility and to avoid side
effects of the attribute.

=item * Changed: the auxiliary functions B< IupTextConvertXYToChar> and
B<IupListConvertXYToItem> where replaced by B<IupConvertXYToPos>, that
also works for B<IupTree>.

=item * Changed: added support for WHEEL_CB in GTK for B<IupCanvas>.

=item * Fixed: IupLua initialization when retrieving the argc/argv
arguments for B<IupOpen>. (Thanks to Ross Berteig)

=item * Fixed: Arg initialization for all controls in Motif driver.

=item * Fixed: update of the POSX and POSY attributes for the
B<IupCanvas>.

=item * Fixed: FONT size round when converting from pixels to points in
Windows. (Thanks to Devin Smith)

=item * Fixed: button disappearing after mouse over in Windows XP.

=item * Fixed: B<IupMatrix> when NUMCOL/NUMLIN were less than
NUMCOL_VISIBLE/NUMLIN_VISIBLE. Also fixed when NUMCOL/NUMLIN were 0 and
changed to 1, and when removed 1. CURSOR attribute when
RESIZEMATRIX=Yes. (Thanks to Jeremy Cowgar)

=item * Fixed: action callback return value in Lua for the
B<IupGetParam> dialog. (Thanks to Zhiwei)

=item * Fixed: EXPAND attribute for B< IupCanvas>.

=back

=head2 Version 3.0 BETA 3 (04/Apr/2009)

=over

=item * New: MARKL:C, READONLY, NUMLIN_VISIBLE_LAST,
NUMCOL_VISIBLE_LAST, and SHOW attributes for B<IupMatrix>. When
scrolling the matrix using the scrollbar the focus is not changed
anymore. The last cells at right and bottom are now drawn as incomplete
cells if they do not fit in the visible area. New FONT_CB callback.
CHECKFRAMECOLOR is not necessary anymore, just set FRAMEVERTCOLOR or
FRAMEHORIZCOLOR. Internal code reorganization. AREA and MULTIPLE
renamed to MARKAREA and MARKMULTIPLE, old names as still supported. New
MULTILINE attribute to edit text in multiple lines, valid only before
mapped.

=item * New:B< IupRedraw> and B<IupSetClassDefaultAttribute> functions.

=item * Changed: Added package registration code to IupLua that allows
it to be statically linked and require"iuplua" does not abort if the
iuplua_open function was called.

=item * Changed: the B<IupOleControl> in Lua will not automatically
initialize LuaCOM anymore. The application must manually call
"elem:CreateLuaCOM()". The previous initialization was incorrect
(thanks to Ross Berteig).

=item * Changed: the declaration of function B<IupGetClassAttributes>
to use the class name instead of a control handle.

=item * Fixed: Fixed button, toggle and list sizes for GTK driver when
using the Hildon Framework. Thanks to Otfried Cheong.

=item * Fixed: some IupLua dynamic libraries in Linux where incorrectly
linking with Motif (libiuplua + pplot, cd, controls, gl, im and imglib
+ 51.so)

=item * Fixed: HOMOGENEOUS attribute for B< IupVbox> and B<IupHbox>.

=item * Fixed: CARET attribute in GTK driver was not correctly
scrolling the multiline text when not visible.

=item * Fixed: parameter checking and the return value in Lua for
B<IupListDialog> when type=2.

=item * Fixed: the return value for B< IupGetText> when the user
canceled. (Thanks to Xu Wang)

=item * Fixed: B<IupGetClassAttributes> and B<IupGetAllAttributes> were
not implemented in IupLua.

=item * Fixed: The 32 bits version of the IupLua console in Windows
XP64 was not working.

=item * Fixed: CARET_CB and B< IupTextConvertXYToChar> in B<IupText>
when MULTILINE=YES and FORMATTING=NO.

=back

=head2 Version 3.0 BETA 2 (26/Dec/2008)

=over

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< -> the following headers were
deprecated iupcb.h, iupcells.h, iupcolorbar.h, iupdial.h, iupgauge.h,
iupmatrix.h, iuptree.h - use iupcontrols.h only

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< -> the following headers were
deprecated iupgetparam.h, iupspin.h, iuptabs.h, iupval.h - use iup.h
only

=item * Fixed: set VALUE attribute for IupText in Windows when
formatting is used.

=item * Fixed: B<IupHide> when dialog was maximized in Windows.

=item * Fixed: get VALUE attribute for B< IupText> in all drivers,
after the element is mapped it must return the empty string "" when
there is no text.

=item * Fixed: B<IupGetParam> when specifying partial intervals.

=item * Fixed: K_Esc key callback processing in Windows.

=item * Fixed: PLACEMENT and FULLSCREEN for IupPopup.

=back

=head2 Version 3.0 BETA 1 (15/Dec/2008)

=head2 General

=over

=item * New: GTK driver, available in UNIX and Windows.

=item * New: internal code reorganization. More clear and simple to
create controls and drivers. All comments are now in English.

=item * New: internal documentation and Guide to create new controls.
Now all the controls use the same architecture using the same base
class.

=item * New: IUP_ASSERT compile flag.

=item * New:B< IupMainLoopLevel> function.

=item * New: support for the HILDON framework that runs on top of GTK
on the L< Maemo|http://www.maemo.org> platform used by the Nokia
Internet Tablets. Thanks to Otfried Cheong.

=item * Changed: all dialogs, and all elements that have names, are now
automatically destroyed in B<IupClose>.

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< -> the following headers were
deprecated iupcbox.h, iupsbox.h - use iup.h only

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< -> the headers iupcompat.h and
iupcpi.h were removed. They are not supported anymore.

=back

=head2 Common Attributes

=over

=item * New: CHARSIZE convertion factor used by the SIZE attribute.

=item * New: NAME used by B< B< IupGetDialogChild.>>

=item * New: font face name mappings for Courier, Times and Helvetica.

=item * New: functions B<IupGetClassAttributes,> B<IupGetIntInt>.

=item * New: CLIENTSIZE returns the size of containers excluding their
decoration.

=item * New: TIP additional attributes (Motif and Windows): TIPFONT,
TIPDELAY, TIPBGCOLOR, TIPFGCOLOR, TIPBALLON (Windows Only),
TIPBALLONTITLE (Windows Only), TIPBALLONTITLEICON (Windows Only),
TIPVISIBLE. Not available in GTK.

=item * New: TIPRECT auxiliary attribute for the TIP common attribute.

=item * Changed: attribute FONT now uses a common a more flexible
definition for all drivers, old format is still supported. The default
FONT in Motif is now "Fixed, 10".

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< -> Now attributes are stored in the
internal hash table only if not processed or allowed by the element
class implementation.

=item * Changed: B<IupGetAttribute>, B<IupSetAttribute> and
B<IupStoreAttribute> can also be used to access global attributes using
NULL as element.

=item * Changed: TIP and ZORDER attributes are now non inheritable.

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< -> the BGCOLOR is now ignored in
B<IupLabel>, B<IupFrame>, B<IupToggle> (for the text) and B<IupVal>.
They will use the background color of the native parent.

=back

=head2 Global Attributes

=over

=item * New: APPSHELL, XDISPLAY, XSCREEN, XSERVERVENDOR, XVENDORRELEASE
in Motif.

=item * New: VIRTUALSCREEN and MONITORSINFO in Windows.

=item * Changed: LANGUAGE default from PORTUGUESE to ENGLISH.

=item * Changed: TRUECOLORCANVAS and SYSTEMLANGUAGE are now available
in all drivers.

=back

=head2 Common Callbacks

=over

=item * New: IUP_IGNORE return code accepted for B<IDLE_ACTION>
callback to automatically remove the callback.

=item * New: UNMAP_CB for all controls

=item * Changed: MAP_CB, ENTERWINDOW_CB, LEAVEWINDOW_CB for all
controls.

=back

=head2 Layout

=over

=item * New: functions B< B<IupGetDialogChild,> IupUnmap,>
B<IupReparent,> B<IupInsert,> B<IupUpdateChildren>, B<IupGetClassType,
B<IupGetChildPos>> and B< B<IupGetChildCount>.>.

=item * New: FLOATING attribute to control the inclusion of the element
in layout processing for B<IupHbox>, B<IupVbox> and B<IupZbox>.

=item * New: HOMOGENEOUS attribute to control the spacing in layout
processing for B< IupHbox> and B<IupVbox>.

=item * New: EXPANDCHILDREN attribute to control the expansion in
layout processing for B< IupHbox> and B<IupVbox>.

=item * New: NORMALIZESIZE attribute to control the natural size in
layout processing for B< IupHbox> and B<IupVbox>.

=item * New: element B< IupNormalize>r.

=item * New: CGAP and CMARGIN for B< IupVbox> and B<IupHbox> that use
SIZE units.

=item * New: VALUEPOS and VALUE_HANDLE attributes for B<IupZbox>.

=item * Changed: default value for ALIGNMENT in B<IupZbox> is now "NW".

=item * Changed: B<IupAppend> and B<IupDetach> can now be used for
dynamic creation of menus or containers, even after the element is
mapped.

=item * Changed: B<IupDetach> will now automatically unmap the element.

=item * Changed: B<IupAppend> will now return the actual parent.

=item * Changed: B<IupUpdate> now only mark the control to be redraw
instead of redrawing at the function call.

=back

=head2 Dialogs

=over

=item * New: MINSIZE and MAXSIZE attributes. In Windows MINSIZE is
ignored for systems with multiple monitors. The Windowing system may
impose a minimum default limit for the dialog that includes the title
bar with all it buttons.

=item * New: DROPFILES_CB and RESIZE_CB callbacks.

=item * New: IUP_CURRENT and IUP_CENTERPARENT positions for
B<IupShowXY> and B<IupPopup>.

=item * New: IUP_HIDE and IUP_MAXIMIZE flags for SHOW_CB callback.

=item * New: MODAL attribute to check if the dialog was shown with
B<IupShow> or B<IupPopup>.

=item * New: B<IupColorDlg,> B<IupFontDlg >and B<IupMessageDlg> native
pre-defined dialog as elements.

=item * New: SHOWHIDDEN attribute for B<IupFileDLg>. Preview canvas
support for the Motif driver.

=item * New: tip string for each param in B<IupGetParam>. And a new "c"
param to show a RGB color string with extra controls to show the color
and open the color selection dialog.

=item * Changed: SAVEUNDER dialog attribute now is also available in
Motif.

=item * Changed: DROPFILES_CB callback is now available for all
controls. It is only activated using DRAGDROP attribute. It is active
by default only for B< IupCanvas> and B<IupDialog>.

=item * Changed: the default value of the Windows attribute COMPOSITED
is now YES, except in Windows Vista.

=item * Changed:B< IupDestroy> is now automatically called for child
dialogs when the parent is destroyed.

=back

=head2 B<Canvas>

=over

=item * New: LINEX, LINEY, XAUTOHIDE and YAUTOHIDE attributes for the
scrollbar.

=item * New: CLIPRECT attribute, a rectangle that has its region
invalidated for paiting.

=item * Changed: if ACTION is defined nothing is painted in the canvas,
now also in Motif.

=item * Changed: BORDER is now also supported in Motif.

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< -> now scrollbar parameters min, max,
page size and line size are updated when DX/DY are updated. POSX and
POSY will only update the position of the scrollbar. Automatic hide of
the scrollbar now works also in Motif.

=back

=head2 Label, Button and Toggle

=over

=item * New: attributes PADDING, ELLIPSIS, WORDWRAP and MARKUP for
B<IupLabel>.

=item * New: IMPRESSBORDER, PADDING, MARKUP, FOCUSONCLICK and ALIGNMENT
attributes for B< IupButton>.

=item * New: support for image and text simultaneous in B<IupButton>.

=item * New: support for mnemonics in B<IupLabel>, B<IupButton> and
B<IupToggle>.

=item * New: RADIO attribute for B<IupToggle>.

=item * Changed: ALIGNMENT attribute now includes vertical alignment
values.

=item * Changed: B<IupButton> now supports text with more than one
line.

=back

=head2 Text and Multiline

=over

=item * New: APPENDNEWLINE and PADDING attributes. CUEBANNER and FILTER
attributes in Windows.

=item * New: MASK attribute for B<IupText>, B<IupMultiline>, B<IupList>
and B<IupMatrix>. The iupmask functions are now obsolete, autofill
option and MATCH_CB callback are not supported anymore.

=item * New: text formatting using FORMATTING and ADDFORMATTAG
attributes in Windows and GTK. New attribute OVERWRITE when using text
formatting.

=item * New: ALL and NONE values for SELECTION attribute.

=item * New: SCROLLTO attribute. New attributes SCROLLTOPOS, CARETPOS
and SELECTIONPOS using 0 based character position. New function B<
IupTextConvertXYToChar> to convert (x,y) coordinates in (lin, col, pos)
character positioning.

=item * New: SPIN, SPINVALUE, SPINMIN, SPINMAX, SPININC, SPINALIGN and
SPINWRAP attributes. New SPIN_CB callback. The B<IupSpin> control is
now obsolete.

=item * New: VISIBLECOLUMNS, VISIBLELINES attributes gives much
better control over size than the SIZE attribute.

=item * Changed: B<IupMultiline> is now implemented as B<IupText> with
MULTILINE=YES.

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< - VERY IMPORTANT -> the ACTION
callback in B<IupText> now does NOT process extended keys anymore. It
is called only if the text is edited, and key=0 if it is not a valid
character. The callback now is called before the text is updated on
screen.

=item * Changed: the SELECTION and CARET attribute in Windows do NOT
change the focus anymore. The NC attribute now only restricts keyboard
input.

=item * Changed: added support for BUTTON_CB and MOTION_CB callbacks.
BUTON_CB can return IUP_IGNORE so the default processing will be
ignored.

=item * Changed: CARET_CB now includes 0 based character position.

=item * Changed: B< ATTENTION>B< - > the Natural Size does not uses the
text contents anymore. To control the Natural Size use the
SIZE/RASTERSIZE attributes, or VISIBLECOLUMNS/VISIBLELINES attributes,
or EXPAND.

=back

=head2 List

=over

=item * New: APPENDVALUE, CANFOCUS, COUNT, DRAGDROP, INSERTITEMn,
REMOVEITEM, TOPITEM, SPACING, VISIBLECOLUMNS, VISIBLELINES attributes.

=item * New: BUTTON_CB, DBLCLICK_CB, DROPDOWN_CB, DROPFILES_CB,
MOTION_CB callbacks.

=item * New:B< IupListConvertXYToItem> function.

=back

=head2 Other Standard Controls

=over

=item * New: INVERTED and TICKSPOS attributes for B<IupVal>.

=item * New: PADDING, VALUE_HANDLE, VALUEPOS, MULTILINE and TABIMAGE
attributes for B< IupTabs>.

=item * New: control B<IupProgressBar>, similar to B<IupGauge> but with
the text.

=item * Changed: B<IupFrames> now are native parents of their children.

=item * Changed: B<IupVal> implemented as a native control. Attributes
HANDLER_IMAGE and HANDLER_IMAGE_INACTIVE are not supported anymore.

=item * Changed: B<IupCbox> is not based on B<IupCanvas >anymore.

=item * Changed: B<IupTabs> implemented as a native control. Attributes
ALIGNMENT, FONT_ACTIVE, FONT_INACTIVE, TABSIZE and REPAINT are not
supported anymore.

=back

=head2 Additional Controls

=over

=item * New: focus feedback and keyboard control for B<IupColorbar>.

=item * Changed: B< IupControlsClose> is now deprecated. Declaration
still remains for compatibility, actual function does nothing.

=item * Changed: the NO_COLOR attribute is deprecated, now it simply
sets the BGCOLOR attribute in B<IupCells>.

=item * Changed: in B<IupColorBrowser> moved from HLS to HSI, added
support for resize, anti-aliasing, support for BGCOLOR attribute,
feedback for ACTIVE attribute, and feedback for focus. New HSI
attribute. New support for mouse wheel to change Hue. New support for
PgDn and PgUp keys to change Hue.

=item * Changed: B<IupTabs> and B<IupVal> are NOT part of the
additional controls anymore. They are now standard controls using
native elements.

=item * Changed: renamed MARGIN attribute to PADDING in B<IupGauge>.
B<IupGauge> is deprecated in favor of B<IupProgressBar>.

=item * Changed: An B<IupGLCanvas> when inside an B<IupFrame> in Win32
will now work normally. But the dialog COMPOSITE attribute must be NO
for hardware acceleration in Windows.

=back

=head2 Menus

=over

=item * New: HIDEMARK, AUTOTOGGLE and TITLEIMAGE attributes for
B<IupItem>.

=item * New: BGCOLOR support for B<IupMenu>.

=item * New: Submenu now supports the IMAGE attribute.

=item * New: RADIO attribute for B< IupMenu>.

=item * Changed: In GTK to have a menu item that can be marked you must
set the VALUE attribute to ON or OFF, or set HIDEMARK=NO, before
mapping the control.

=item * Changed: The HIGHLIGHT_CB, OPEN_CB and MENUCLOSE_CB callbacks
now work normally for popup menus. HIGHLIGHT_CB is called for items and
submenus.

=item * Changed: OPEN_CB and MENUCLOSE_CB are defined for menus, but
it is checked at the parent submenu for backward compatibility with IUP
2.x.

=item * Changed: TITLE for submenus can now be changed after the
element is mapped.

=item * Changed: Children can be added or removed from menus even after
the menu is mapped.

=item * Changed: menus can now be dynamically changed even after
mapped.

=back

=head2 Images

=over

=item * New: support for 24 and 32 bpp images using B<IupImageRGB> and
B<IupImageRGBA> constructors.

=item * New: "UPARROW" cursor in Motif. New cursors "RESIZE_NS" and
"RESIZE_WE". Updated cursor documentation with pictures of all
pre-defined cursors.

=item * Changed: the automatic generation of inactive images for a more
smooth one, still using a modified version of the background color to
create the disabled effect.

=item * Changed: B<IupImageLibOpen> will now only register names, but
will not load the images. New 32bpp images for Windows. GTK aliases are
also available. Many new images. B<IupImageLib>B<Close> removed, loaded
images will now be automatically unloaded.

=back

=head2 Keyboard

=over

=item * New: MODKEYSTATE global attribute in all drivers.

=item * New: key definitions: K_acute, K_ccedilla, K_Print, K_Menu.

=item * New: key definitions for the system key modifier K_y*. In
Windows this is the Windows key and in Mac this is the Apple key.

=item * New: CANFOCUS attribute for B< IupButton>, B<IupTogle>,
B<IupText>, B<IupCanvas> and B<IupVal>.

=item * Changed: SHIFTKEY and CONTROLKEY are now available in all
drivers.

=item * Changed: Removed the conflicts: K_BS=K_cH, K_TAB=K_cI and
K_CR=K_cM. New key code macros B<iup_isShiftXkey>, B<iup_isCtrlXkey>,
B<iup_isAltXkey> and B<iup_isSysXkey>.

=back

=head2 L<History of Version 2.x|history2.html>

=cut