=head1 IupGLControls (since 3.11)

=head2 OpenGL Controls Library

This library contains several controls that behave much like their
standard controls counterpart such as B<IupLabel>, B<IupButton>,
B<IupFrame>, and so on. But they were designed to be used only embedded
in an OpenGL canvas along with the application drawing. They will work
and be displayed on top of the application drawing and respond to mouse
events concurrently with the application mouse events.

In order to use these controls the application must use the B<
IupGLCanvasBox> controls instead of the B<IupGLCanvas> control.
Actually the B<IupGLCanvasBox> inherits from theB< IupGLCanvas> control
so their usage is identical. But B< IupGLCanvasBox> can have children
and it will manage the display and mouse events of all its children.

All the visible elements that can be an embedded children of a B<
IupGLCanvasBox> are based on the B<IupGLSubCanvas> control. Only
elements that are void containers can also be used, such as B<IupHbox>,
B<IupVbox>, B<IupGridBox>, and so on. B<IupFill> can also be used. All
functions and resources, like B<IupImage>, are used just like any other
IUP control.

These controls are drawn by IUP using OpenGL on a
L<IupGLCanvas|ctrl/iupglcanvas.html> control, and are not native
controls.

The B<iupglcontrols.h> file must be included in the source code. If you
plan to use the control in Lua, you should also include
B<iupluaglcontrols.h>.

The B<IupGLControlsOpen> function must be called after B<IupOpen>. To
make the controls available in Lua use require"iupluaglcontrols" or
manually call the initialization function in C,
B<iupglcontrolslua_open>, after calling B<iuplua_open>.

When manually calling the function your application must be linked to
the control library (B<iupglcontrols>), the B<IupGLCanvas> control
library (B<iupgl>), with the FTGL library, and with the OpenGL library.
To use its bindings to Lua, the program must also be linked to the
B<iupluaglcontrols> library.

The FTGL library is dependent also on the GLU library. In UNIX,
B<IupGLControls> is also dependent on B<iconv> and B<fontconfig>.

=head2 Examples

[IMAGE]

=cut