=head1 IupImageLib (up to 2.x)

A library of pre-defined images for buttons and labels. See L<
IupImageLib|iupimglib.html> since IUP 3.0.

=head2 Initialization

To generate an application that uses this function, the program must be
linked to the functions library (iupimglib.lib on Windows and
libiupimglib.a on Unix). The iupcontrols.h file must also be included
in the source code.

The library is quite large because of the images. To avoid using all
the images get the source code and extract only the image you need.

=head2 Reference

 void IupImageLibOpen(void); [in C]
 iup.ImageLibOpen()  [in Lua]

This function loads all the images in the library.

In Lua, when require"iupluaimglib" is used this function will be
automatically called.

 void IupImageLibClose(void); [in C]
 iup.ImageLibClose()  [in Lua]

This function releases all the images of the library.

=head2 Usage

The following names are defined after the library initialization. The
images do NOT include the button borders, this is just a preview for
buttons!

The "BGCOLOR" color value is set and the colors are distributed so that
the automatic disable color algorithm works fine. Images for buttons
have size 20x20, small images are 11x11, and label images have
height=30.

Names

Images

"IUP_IMGBUT_TEXT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_NEW"

"IUP_IMGBUT_NEWSPRITE"

"IUP_IMGBUT_OPEN"

"IUP_IMGBUT_CLOSE"

"IUP_IMGBUT_CLOSEALL"

"IUP_IMGBUT_SAVE"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGBUT_CUT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_COPY"

"IUP_IMGBUT_PASTE"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGBUT_PRINT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_PREVIEW"

"IUP_IMGBUT_SEARCH"

"IUP_IMGBUT_HELP"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGBUT_REDO"

"IUP_IMGBUT_UNDO"

"IUP_IMGBUT_ONELEFT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_ONERIGHT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_TENLEFT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_TENRIGHT"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGBUT_ZOOM"

"IUP_IMGBUT_ZOOMIN"

"IUP_IMGBUT_ZOOMOUT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_NOZOOM"

"IUP_IMGBUT_YZ"

"IUP_IMGBUT_XY"

"IUP_IMGBUT_XZ"

"IUP_IMGBUT_FIT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_AXIS"

"IUP_IMGBUT_CUBE"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGBUT_TILE"

"IUP_IMGBUT_CASCADE"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGBUT_STOP"

"IUP_IMGBUT_PLAY"

"IUP_IMGBUT_PREVIOUS"

"IUP_IMGBUT_NEXT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_PLAYBACKWARD"

"IUP_IMGBUT_FOWARD"

"IUP_IMGBUT_REWIND"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGBUT_GREENLEFT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_GREENUP"

"IUP_IMGBUT_GREENRIGHT"

"IUP_IMGBUT_GREENDOWN"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGBUT_CONFIGURE"

"IUP_IMGBUT_VIDEO"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGSML_SINGLELEFT"

"IUP_IMGSML_DOUBLELEFT"

"IUP_IMGSML_SINGLERIGHT"

"IUP_IMGSML_DOUBLERIGHT"

"IUP_IMGSML_DOWN"

"IUP_IMGSML_LEFT"

"IUP_IMGSML_RIGHT"

"IUP_IMGSML_UP"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_IMGLBL_TECGRAF"

"IUP_IMGLBL_BR"

"IUP_IMGLBL_LUA"

"IUP_IMGLBL_TECGRAFPUCRIO"

"IUP_IMGLBL_PETROBRAS"

[IMAGE]

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupImage|elem/iupimage.html>

=cut