=head1 IupImageLib (since 3.0)

A library of pre-defined images for buttons and labels. See L<
IupImageLib|iupimglib2.html> up to IUP 2.x.

=head2 Initialization

To generate an application that uses this function, the program must be
linked to the functions library (B<iupimglib>.lib on Windows and
libB<iupimglib>.a on Unix).

=head2 Reference

 void IupImageLibOpen(void); [in C]
 iup.ImageLibOpen()  [in Lua]

This function register the names but do not load the images. The images
will be loaded only if they are used in a control. The loaded images
will be automatically released at L<IupClose|func/iupclose.html>.

In Lua, when require"iupluaimglib" is used this function will be
automatically called.

=head2 Usage

The following names can be used after the library initialization. The
names are NOT registered using B<IupSetHandle>, they will be
automatically loaded when associated with a control.

=head2 Bitmap Group

These bitmaps are 16x16-8bpp (Motif), 16x16-32bpp (Win32) or
24x24-32bpp (GTK) pixels size images that can be used in Buttons,
usually inside toolbars. Do not set RASTERSIZE of buttons so they can
expand when switching to GTK.

Name

Image

(Motif)

Image

(Win32)

Image

(GTK)

"IUP_ActionCancel"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ActionOk"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ArrowDown"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ArrowLeft"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ArrowRight"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ArrowUp"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_EditCopy"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_EditCut"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_EditErase"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_EditFind"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_EditPaste"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_EditRedo"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_EditUndo"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FileClose"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FileCloseAll"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FileNew"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FileOpen"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FileProperties"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FileSave"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FileSaveAll"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FileText"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FontBold"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FontDialog"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_FontItalic"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaForward"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaGotoBegin"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaGoToEnd"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaPause"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaPlay"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaRecord"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaReverse"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaRewind"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MediaStop"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MessageError"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MessageHelp"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_MessageInfo"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_NavigateHome"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_NavigateRefresh"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_Print"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_PrintPreview"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ToolsColor"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ToolsSettings"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ToolsSortAscend"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ToolsSortDescend"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ViewFullScreen"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_Webcam"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_WindowsCascade"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_WindowsTile"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_Zoom"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ZoomActualSize"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ZoomIn"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ZoomOut"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_ZoomSelection"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

=head2 Icon Group

These icons are 32x32 pixels size (or just 32 pixels height) images
that can be used in Labels, usually inside toolbars.

Name

Image

(Generic)

"IUP_Tecgraf"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_PUC-Rio"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_BR"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_Lua"

[IMAGE]

Name

Image

(Generic)

"IUP_TecgrafPUC-Rio"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_Petrobras"

[IMAGE]

=head2 Logo Group (NOT included in the pre-compiled library, since 3.3)

These logos are 48x48 pixels size (or just 48 pixels height) images
that can be used in Labels, usually inside dialogs.

Name

Image

(Generic)

"IUP_LogoTecgraf"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_LogoPUC-Rio"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_LogoBR"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_LogoLua"

[IMAGE]

Name

Image

(Generic)

"IUP_LogoTecgrafPUC-Rio"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_LogoPetrobras"

[IMAGE]

=head2 Other (NOT included in the pre-compiled library, since 3.3)

Here are other images available in the IUP stock library, commonly used
by the respective systems. All images are 48x48 pixels size and 32bpp.

Name

Image

(Win32)

Image

(GTK)

"IUP_LogoMessageSecurity"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_LogoMessageWarning"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_LogoMessageInfo"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_LogoMessageError"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

"IUP_LogoMessageHelp"

[IMAGE]

[IMAGE]

Name

Image

(Win32)

"IUP_DeviceCamera"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceCD"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceCellPhone"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceComputer"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceFax"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceMP3"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceNetwork"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DevicePDA"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DevicePrinter"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceScanner"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceSound"

[IMAGE]

"IUP_DeviceVideo"

[IMAGE]

=head2 Notes

All 8bpp images are from the old ImageLib and since Motif does not have
any stock images, we selected this set to be used in Motif. Although
the IUP Motif driver supports 32bpp images.

Not available in AIX.

All "Win32" images copyright Microsoft and were extracted from the
Visual Studio 2005 Image Library. Their use B<must> be used
consistently with their description in the Visual Studio 2005 Image
Library, and so consistently with the IUP name. These files are
available with Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 for redistribution under
the Visual Studio 2005 license.

GTK stock images are released under the GTK license.

PUC-Rio, Tecgraf/PUC-Rio, Petrobras and Lua images are copyright of the
respective companies or owners.

Lua image graphic design by A. Nakonechnyj. Copyright 1998. All rights
reserved.

=head2 X<SeeAlso>See Also

L<IupImage|elem/iupimage.html>

=cut