=head1 Lua Binding

=head2 X<iuplua>Overview

All the IUP functions are available in Lua, with a few exceptions. We
call it B<IUPLua>. To use them the general application will do
require"iuplua", and require"iupluaxxxx" to all other secondary
libraries that are needed. The functions and definitions will be
available under the table "iup" using the following name rules:

 iupXxx  -> iup.Xxx    (for functions)IUP_XXX -> iup.XXX    (for definitions)

All the metatables have the "tostring" metamethod implemented to help
debugging.

Also the functions which receive values by reference in C were
modified. Generally, the values of parameters that would have their
values modified are now returned by the function in the same order.

Notice that, as opposed to C, in which enumeration flags areI<
>combined with the bitwise operator OR, in Lua the flags are added
arithmetically.

In Lua all parameters are checked and a Lua error is emitted when the
check fails.

All the objects are NOT garbage collected by the Lua garbage collector,
you must manually call B<iup.Destroy> or elem:B<destroy>, if you would
like to destroy an element.

In Iup additional features were created for the Lua Binding using the
metamethods. Attributes and callbacks can be set and get in a much more
natural way:

 IupSetAttribute(label, "TITLE", "test")   >>   label.title = "test"             (names are in lower case)title = IupGetAttribute(label, "TITLE")   >>   title = label.titleIupSetCallback(button, "ACTION", button_action_cb);   >>    function button:action() ... end

Also the element constructors were changed so you can use tables to
initialize their parameters and attributes:

 IupButton("test")         >>    iup.button{title = "test", alignment="acenter"}IupHbox(bt1, bt2, NULL)   >>    iup.hbox{bt1, bt2, margin="10x10"} 

B<Lua> was created after B<LED>, so that's why B<LED> exists. Since we
have many application still using LED, its support will continue in
IUP. Today B<IupLua> completely replaces the LED functionality and adds
much more.E<gt>

The distribution files include an executable called B<iuplua51>, that
you can use to test your Lua code. It has support for all the
additional controls, for IM, CD and OpenGL calls. It is available at
the L<Download|download.html>.

=head2 X<iupluainit>IupLua Initialization

B<Lua> 5.1 "require" can be used for all the B<IupLua> libraries. You
can use B<require>"B<iuplua>" and so on, but the LUA_CPATH must also
contains at least the following:

 "./lib?51.so;"    [in UNIX]
 
 ".\\?51.dll;"     [in Windows]

The L<LuaBinaries|http://luabinaries.luaforge.net/> distribution
already includes these modifications on the default search path.

The simplest form B<require>"B<iup>" and so on, can not be used because
there are IUP dynamic libraries with names that will conflict with the
names used by B<require> during search.

Additionally you can statically link the B<IupLua> libraries, but you
must call the initialization functions manually. The B< iuplua_open>
function is declared in the header file B<iuplua.h>, see the example
below:

 #include <lua.h>
 #include <lualib.h>
 #include <lauxlib.h>
 #include <iuplua.h>
 void main(void)
 {
   lua_State *L = lua_open();
 
   luaopen_string(L);
   luaopen_math(L);
   luaopen_io(L);  
 
   iuplua_open(L); 
   lua_dofile("myprog.lua");
   
   lua_close(L);
 }

When using B<Lua> the Iup initialization functions, B<IupOpen>,
B<IupControlsOpen> and others, are not necessary. The initialization is
automatically done inside the respective B<IupLua> initialization
function.

To use IUP inside coroutines, define the global attribute
"IUPLUA_THREADED".

=head2 Embedding Lua files in the Application Executable

The Lua files are dynamically loaded and must be sent together with the
applications executable. However, this often becomes an inconvenience.
To deal with it, there is the B<LuaC> compiler that creates a C module
from the Lua contents. For example:

 luac -o myfile.lo myfile.lua
 lua bin2c.lua myfile.lo > myfile.loh

In C, you can use a define to interchanged the use of .LOH files:

 #ifdef _DEBUG
   ret_val = iuplua_dofile("myfile.lua");
 #else
 #include "myfile.loh"
 #endif

This does not work when using LuaJIT. To be able to do that, use Lua
files directly as strings:

 lua bin2c.lua myfile.lua > myfile.lh

In C, simply include the .LH files:

 #include "myfile.lh"

=head2 More Information

Steve Donovan wrote a very nice "L<A Basic Guide to using
IupLua|basic/index.html>" that was included in L<Lua for
Windows|http://luaforwindows.luaforge.net/>. It is now available as
part of the IUP documentation.

The slides for B<"Tecgraf Development Tools: IUP, CD and IM"> presented
at the Lua Workshop 2009 are also available for L<
Download|../download>
[L<iupcdim_wlua2009_en.pdf|../download/iupcdim_wlua2009_en.pdf>].

=cut