=head1 X<visao_geral>Overview

IUP is a multi-platform toolkit for building graphical user interfaces.
It offers APIs in three basic languages: C, L<Lua|http://www.lua.org>
and LED.

Its library contains about 100 functions for creating and manipulating
dialogs.

IUP's purpose is to allow a program to run in different systems without
changes - the toolkit provides the application portability. Supported
systems include: GTK+, Motif and Windows.

IUP uses an abstract layout model based on the boxes-and-glue paradigm
from the TEX text editor. This model, combined with the
dialog-specification language (L<LED|sys_guide.html#led>) or with the
Lua binding (L<IupLua|sys_guide.html#iuplua>) makes the dialog creation
task more flexible and independent from the graphics system's
resolution.

Currently available interface elements can be categorized as follows:

=over

=item * B<Primitives> (effective user interaction): B<dialog, label,
button, text, multi-line, list, toggle, canvas, frame, image>.

=item * B<Composition> (ways to show the elements): B<hbox, vbox,>
B<zbox, fill>.

=item * B<Grouping> (definition of a common functionality for a group
of elements): B<radio>.

=item * B<Menu> (related both to menu bars and to pop-up menus):
B<menu, submenu, item, separator>.

=item * Additional (elements built outside the main library): B<dial,
gauge, matrix, tabs, valuator, OpenGL canvas, color chooser, color
browser>.

=item * B<Dialogs> (useful predefined dialogs): B<file selection,
message, alarm, data input, list selection>.

=back

Hence IUP has some advantages over other interface toolkits available:

=over

=item * B<Simplicity:> due to the small number of functions and to its
attribute mechanism, the learning curve for a new user is often faster.

=item * B<Portability:> the same functions are implemented in each one
of the platforms, thus assuring the interface system's portability.

=item * B<Customization:> the dialog specification language (LED) and
the Lua binding (IupLua) are two mechanisms in which it is possible to
customize an application for a specific user with a simple-syntax text
file.

=item * B<Flexibility>: its abstract layout mechanism provides
flexibility to dialog creation.

=item * B<Extensibility:> the programmer can create new interface
elements as needed.

=back

IUP is free software, can be used for public and commercial
applications.

=head1 X<disponibilidade>Availability

The library is available for several B<compilers>:

=over

=item * GCC and CC, in the UNIX environment

=item * Visual C++, Borland C++, Watcom C++ and GCC (Cygwin and MingW),
in the Windows environment

=back

The library is available for several B<operating systems>:

=over

=item * UNIX (SunOS, IRIX, and AIX) using Motif 2.x

=item * UNIX (FreeBSD and Linux) using GTK+ (since 3.0)

=item * Microsoft Windows 2000/XP/2003/Vista/7 using the Win32 API

=back

=head1 X<suporte>Support

The official support mechanism is by e-mail, using B<
L<iup@tecgraf.puc-rio.br|mailto:iup@tecgraf.puc-rio.br?subject=[IUP]>>.
Before sending your message:

=over

=item * Check if the reported behavior is not described in the user
guide.

=item * Check if the reported behavior is not described in the specific
control or driver characteristics.

=item * Check the History to see if your version is updated.

=item * Check the To Do list to see if your problem has already been
reported.

=back

If all these points were checked, you can report your problem. Please
specify in your message: B<function, attribute, callback, platform> and
B<compiler>.

We host the B<IUP> support features at B<SourceForge>: L<
http:E<47>E<47>sourceforge.netE<47>projectsE<47>iupE<47>|http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/>.
It provides us Mailing List, CVS Repository and Downloads.

The discussion list is available at: L<
http:E<47>E<47>lists.sourceforge.netE<47>listsE<47>listinfoE<47>iup-users|http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/iup-users>.

Source code, pre-compiled binaries and documentation can be downloaded
at:
L<http:E<47>E<47>sourceforge.netE<47>projectE<47>showfiles.php?group_id=241310|http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=241310>.

The CVS can be browsed at: L<
http:E<47>E<47>iup.cvs.sourceforge.netE<47>iupE<47>|http://iup.cvs.sourceforge.net/iup/>.

If you want us to develop a specific feature for the toolkit, Tecgraf
is available for partnerships and cooperation.

Lua documentation and resources can be found at
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.lua.orgE<47>|http://www.lua.org/>.

=head1 X<creditos>Credits

This work was developed at Tecgraf by means of the partnership with
PETROBRAS/CENPES.

Library Authors:

=over

=item * Marcelo Gattass

=item * Luiz Henrique de Figueiredo

=item * Carlos Henrique Levy

=item * Antonio Scuri

=back

We must also mention engineer Enio Emanuel Russo, from PETROBRAS, who
effectively contributed to the system's specification and project.

Thanks to the people that worked and contributed to the library:

=over

=item * AndrE<eacute> Carregal

=item * AndrE<eacute> Clinio

=item * AndrE<eacute> Costa

=item * AndrE<eacute> Derraik

=item * Carlos Augusto Mendes

=item * Carlos JosE<eacute> Pereira de Lucena

=item * Claudio Coutinho de Biasi

=item * Danny Reinhold

=item * Diego Nehab

=item * Diogo Martinez

=item * Guilherme Fonseca Alvarenga

=item * Henrique Dalcin Mendes Pinheiro

=item * Heesob Park

=item * Leonardo Constantino Oliveira

=item * Luiz CristE<oacute>vE<atilde>o Gomes Coelho

=item * Luiz Martins

=item * Marian Trifon

=item * Mark Stroetzel Glasberg

=item * Mauricio Oliveira Carneiro

=item * Milton Jonathan

=item * Neil Armstrong Rezende

=item * Nicolas Noble

=item * Otfried Cheong

=item * Rafael Rieder

=item * Renato Borges

=item * Renato Cerqueira

=item * Roberto Beauclair

=item * Steve Donovan

=item * Tomas Guisasola Gorham

=item * Vinicius Almendra

=item * Warren Music

=back

Thanks for the L<SourceForge|http://sourceforge.net/> for hosting the
support features. Thanks for the L< LuaForge|http://luaforge.net/> team
for previously hosting the support features for many years.

IUP is registered at the National Institute of Intellectual Property in
Brazil (INPI) under the number 07569-0, and so it is protected against
illegal use. See the L<Tecgraf Library License|copyright.html> for
further usage information and Copyright.

=head1 X<sobre>Documentation

This toolkit is available at
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>iup|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup>.

The full documentation can be downloaded from the L<Download
Files|download.html>. The documentation is also available in Adobe
Acrobat and Windows HTML Help formats.

The HTML navigation uses the WebBook tool, available at
L<http:E<47>E<47>www.tecgraf.puc-rio.brE<47>webbook|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/webbook>.

There are also a few presentations:

=over

=item * Lua Workshop 2009 - IUP, CD and IM in Lua
(L<http:E<47>E<47>www.lua.orgE<47>wshop09.html#Scuri|http://www.lua.org/wshop09.html#Scuri>)
[L<iupcdim_wlua2009.pdf|../download/iupcdim_wlua2009.pdf>]

=item * PUCRS 2010 - IUP, CD and IM
[L<iupcdim_facin2010.pdf|../download/iupcdim_facin2010.pdf>]

=back

=head1 X<publicacoes>Publications

This product stimulated the following scientific publications:

=over

=item * Scuri, A. "IUP - Portable User Interface". Software Developer's
Journal. Dec/2005. [L<iup_sdj2005.pdf|../download/iup_sdj2005.pdf>]

=item * Levy, C. H.; Figueiredo, L. H.; Gattass, M.; Lucena, C.; and
Cowan, D. "IUP/LED: A Portable User Interface Development Tool".
I<Software: Practice & Experience>, 26 #7 (1996) 737-762.
[L<spe95.pdf|../download/spe95.pdf>]

=item * Oliveira Prates, R.; Figueiredo, L. H.; and Gattass, M.
"EspecificaE<ccedil>E<atilde>o de Layout Abstrato por
ManipulE<ccedil>E<atilde>o Direta". Proceedings of VII SIBGRAPI (1994),
165-172. [L<sib94.pdf|../download/sib94.pdf> in Portuguese]

=item * Oliveira Prates, R.; Gattass, M. ;and Figueiredo, L. H. "Visual
LED: uma ferramenta interativa para geraE<ccedil>E<atilde>o de
interfaces grE<aacute>ficas". M.Sc. dissertation, Computer Science
Department, PUC-Rio, 1994. [L<prates94.pdf|../download/prates94.pdf> in
Portuguese]

=item * Levy, C. H. "IUP/LED: Uma Ferramenta PortE<aacute>til de
Interface com UsuE<aacute>rio". M.Sc. dissertation, Computer Science
Department, PUC-Rio, 1993.[L<levy93.pdf|../download/levy93.pdf> in
Portuguese]

=item * Figueiredo, L. H.;Gattass, M.; and Levy, C.H. "Uma
EstratE<eacute>gia de Portabilidade para AplicaE<ccedil>E<otilde>es
GrE<aacute>ficas Interativas". Proceedings of VI SIBGRAPI (1993),
203-211. [L<sib93.pdf|../download/sib93.pdf> in Portuguese]

=back

Interview at the L<FLOSS|http://twit.tv/show/floss-weekly> weekly show
about Free Libre Open Source Software, hosted by L<Randal
Schwartz|http://www.stonehenge.com/merlyn/>:

=over

=item * L<
http:E<47>E<47>twit.tvE<47>showE<47>floss-weeklyE<47>190|http://twit.tv/show/floss-weekly/190>

=back

=cut