=head1 Complete Samples

=head2 X<exemplo>Standard Controls

The following example creates a dialog with virtually all of IUP
standard elements as well as some variations of them, with some
attributes changed. The same example is implemented in C, LED and Lua.
The C code is ready to compile. The LED code can be loaded and viewed
in the L<IupView|executables.html> application. The Lua code can be
loaded and executed in the B<IupLua> standalone application.

in C

in LED

in IupLua

L<sample.c|../examples/C/sample.c>

L<sample.led|../examples/LED/sample.led>

L<sample.wlua|../examples/Lua/sample.wlua>

You can see the results in Windows, Motif and GTK on the L<Sample
Results|sample_results.html>.

=head2 All Samples

The IUP samples are spread in the documentation. Each control, dialog,
menu has its own set of examples in C, LED and Lua.

L<Browse for Example Files|../examples/>

=head2 C<iupglcap>

This application uses IUP and OpenGL to create a window with two
canvases and draw a video capture image into one canvas. A processed
image can be displayed in the second canvas. It can also process frames
from a video file. It is very useful for Computer Vision courses. You
can download the source code here:
L<iupglcap.zip|../download/iupglcap.zip>. You will also need to
download IUP, CD and IM libraries for the compiler you use.

=head2 External Samples

The L<CD|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/cd/> and
L<IM|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/im/> libraries have samples that use
IUP, check in their documentation.

Some freely available applications also use IUP:

L<IMLAB|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/~scuri/imlab/> - Image Processing
Laboratory

L<EdPatt|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/edpatt> - Pattern Editor

L<Ftool|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/ftool/> - Two-dimensional Frame
Analysis Tool

The L<Lua for Windows|http://luaforwindows.luaforge.net/> distribution
is a 'batteries included environment' for the Lua scripting language on
Windows, that also includes LuaGL, IUP, CD and IM.

=cut